# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 201/387

TAVERN BRAWLER
Origin Feat
You gain the following benefits.
Enhanced Unarmed Strike. When you hit with
your Unarmed Strike and deal damage, you can
deal Bludgeoning damage equal to ld4 plus your
Strength modifier instead of the normal damage of
an Unarmed Strike.
Damage Rerolls. Whenever you roll a damage die
for your Unarmed Strike, you can reroll the die if it
rolls a 1, and you must use the new roll.
Improvised Weaponry. You have proficiency with
improvised weapons.
Push. When you hit a creature with an Unarmed
Strike as part of the Attack action on your turn, you
can deal damage to the target and also push it 5 feet
away from you. You can use this benefit only once
per turn.
TOUGH
Origin Feat
Your Hit Point maximum increases by an amount
equal to twice your character level when you gain
this feat. Whenever you gain a character level
thereafter, your Hit Point maximum increases by an
additional 2 Hit Points.
GENERAL FEATS
These feats are in the General category.
ABILITY SCORE IMPROVEMENT
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)
Increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or
increase two ability scores of your choice by 1. This
feat can't increase an ability score above 20.
Repeatable. You can take this feat more than once.
ACTOR
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Charisma 13+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Charisma
score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Impersonation. While you're disguised as a real or
fictional person, you have Advantage on Charisma
(Deception or Performance) checks to convince
others that you are that person.
Mimicry. You can mimic the sounds of other creatures, including speech. A creature that hears the
mimicry must succeed on a Wisdom (Insight) check
to determine the effect is faked (DC 8 plus your
Charisma modifier and Proficiency Bonus).
2 02
CHAPTER 5 I FE ATS
ATHLETE
General Feat (Pre,·equisite: Level 4+, Strength 0 1•
Dexterity 13+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or
Dexterity score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Climb Speed. You gain a Climb Speed equal to your
Speed.
Hop Up. When you have the Prone condition, you
can right yourself with only 5 feet of movement.
Jumping. You can make a running Long or High
Jump after moving only 5 feet.
CHARGER
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Strength or
Dexterity 13+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or
Dexterity score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Improved Dash. When you take the Dash action,
your Speed increases by 10 feet for that action.
Charge Attack. If you move at least 10 feet in a
straight line toward a target immediately before hitting it with a melee attack roll as part of the Attack
action, choose one of the following effects: gain a
ld8 bonus to the attack's damage roll, or push the
target up to 10 feet away if it is no more than one
size larger than you. You can use this benefit only
once on each of your turns.
CHEF
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Constitution
or Wisdom score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Cook's Utensils. You gain proficiency with Cook's
Utensils if you don't already have it.
Replenishing Meal. As part of a Short Rest, you
can cook special food if you have ingredients and
Cook's Utensils on hand. You can prepare enough
of this food for a number of creatures equal to 4
plus your Proficiency Bonus. At the end of the Short
Rest, any creature who eats the food and spends
one or more Hit Dice to regain Hit Points regains an
extra ld8 Hit Points.
Bolstering Treats. With 1 hour of work or when
you finish a Long Rest, you can cook a number of
treats equal to your Proficiency Bonus if you have
ingredients and Cook's Utensils on k nd. These special treats last 8 hours after he[ng :Y,aJ e. A creature
can use a Bonus Action to eat om' o! :..hose treats
to gain a number of Temporary t i1 P~,;nts equal to
your Proficiency Bonus.
