# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 212/387

-j CHAPTER 6
EQUIPMENT
HE RIGHT EQUIPMENT CAN MAKE THE
difference between success and failure for
adventurers. This chapter provides rules and
prices for weapons, armor, and other kinds of equipment that characters might purchase or find. The
DM lets you know if a shop has an item for sale and
whether it's available at the listed price.
COINS
Characters often find coins on their adventures
and can spend those coins in shops, inns, and other
businesses. Coins come in different denominations
based on the relative worth of their material. The
Coin Values table lists coins and how much they're
worth relative to the Gold Piece, which is the game's
main coin. For example, 100 Copper Pieces are
worth 1 Gold Piece.
A coin weighs about a third of an ounce, so fifty
coins weigh a pound.
COIN VALUES
Coin
Copper Piece (CP)
Silver Piece (SP)
Electrum Piece (EP)
Gold Piece (GP)
Platinum Piece (PP)
WEAPONS
Value in GP
1/100
1/10
1/2
10
The Weapons table in this section shows the game's
main weapons. The table lists the cost and weight of
each weapon, as well as the following details:
Category. Every weapon falls into a category: Simple or Martial. Weapon proficiencies are usually
tied to one of these categories. For example, you
might have proficiency with Simple weapons.
Melee or Ranged. A weapon is classified as either
Melee or Ranged. A Melee weapon is used to
attack a target within 5 feet, whereas a Ranged
weapon is used to attack at a greater distance.
SELLIN C EQUIPMENT
Equipment fetches half its cost when sold. In contrast, trade goods and valuables-like gems and
art objectsretain their full value in the marketplace. The Dungeon Master's Guide has prices for
magic items.
Damage. The table lists the amount of damage a
weapon deals when an attacker hits with it as well
as the type of that damage.
Properties. Any properties a weapon has are listed
in the Properties column. Each property is defined
in the "Properties" section.
Mastery. Each weapon has a mastery property,
which is defined in the "Mastery Properties" section later in this chapter. To use that property, you
must have a feature that lets you use it.
WEAPON PROFICIENCY
Anyone can wield a weapon, but you must have
proficiency with it to add your Proficiency Bonus to
an attack roll you make with it. A player character's
features can provide weapon proficiencies. A monster is proficient with any weapon in its stat block.
PROPERTIES
Here are definitions of the properties in the Properties column of the Weapons table.
AMMUNITION
You can use a weapon that has the Ammunition
property to make a ranged attack only if you have
ammunition to fire from it. The type of ammunition
required is specified with the weapon's range. Each
attack expends one piece of ammunition. Drawing
the ammunition is part of the attack (you need a
free hand to load a one-handed weapon). After a
fight, you can spend 1 minute to recover half the
ammunition (round down) you used in the fight; the
rest is lost.
FINESSE
When making an attack with a Finesse weapon, use
your choice of your Strength or Dexterity modifier
for the attack and damage rolls. You must use the
same modifier for both rolls.
HEAVY
You have Disadvantage on attack rolls with a Heavy
weapon if it's a Me lee weapon and your Strength
score isn't at least 13 or if it's a Ranged weapon and
your Dexterity score isn't at least 13.
LIGHT
When you take the Attack action on your turn and
attack with a Light weapon, you can make one extra
attack as a Bonus Action later on the same turn.
That extra attack must be made with a different
CH APTER 6 I EQUIPMENT
~13
