# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 237/387

A Clear Path to the Target. To target something
with a spell, a caster must have a clear path to it, so
it can't be behind Total Cover.
Targeting Yourself. If a spell targets a creature
of your choice, you can choose yourself unless the
creature must be Hostile or specifically a creature
other than you.
Areas of Effect. Some spells, such as Thunderwave,
cover an area called an area of effect, which is defined in the rules glossary. The area determines
what the spell targets. The description of a spell
specifies whether it has an area of effect, which is
typically one of these shapes: Cone, Cube, Cylinder,
Emanation, Line, or Sphere.
Awareness of Being Targeted. Unless a spell has a
perceptible effect, a creature doesn't know it was
targeted by the spell. An effect like lightning is obvious, but a more subtle effect, such as an attempt
to read thoughts, goes unnoticed unless a spell's
description says otherwise.
Invalid Targets. If you cast a spell on someone
or something that can't be affected by it, nothing
happens to that target, but if you used a spell slot to
cast the spell, the slot is still expended.
If the spell normally has no effect on a target that
succeeds on a saving throw, the invalid target appears to have succeeded on its saving throw, even
though it didn't attempt one (giving no hint that the
creature is an invalid target). Otherwise, you perceive that the spell did nothing to the target.
SAVING THROWS
Many spells specify that a target makes a saving
throw to avoid some or all of a spell's effects. The
spell specifies the ability that the target uses for
238
CHAPTER 7 I SPE LLS
the save and what happens on a success or failure.
Here's how to calculate the DC for your spells:
Spell save DC= 8 + your spellcasting ability modifier
+ your Proficiency Bonus
ATTACK ROLLS
Some spells require the caster to make an attack roll
to determine whether the spell hits a target. Here's
how to calculate the attack modifier for your spells:
Spell attack modifier= your spellcasting ability
modifier+ your Proficiency Bonus
COMBINING SPELL EFFECTS
The effects of different spells add together while
their durations overlap. In contrast, the effects of
the same spell cast multiple times don't combine.
Instead, the most potent effect-such as the highest bonus-from those castings applies while their
durations overlap. The most recent effect applies if
the castings are equally potent and their durations
overlap. For example, if two Clerics cast Bless on the
same target, that target gains the spell's benefit only
once; the target doesn't receive two bonus dice. But
if the durations of the spells overlap, the effect continues until the duration of the second Bless ends.
IDENTIFYING AN ONGOI NG $~ ELL
You can try to identify a non-ir.stantaneous spell
by its observable effects if its d;.:r ;}t:on is ongoing.
To identify it, you must take tr1 , ~,tJdy action and
succeed on a DC 15 lntellige:1,:·: •:-;r:ana) check.
........ . •··•-
-----
