# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 18/387

EXPLORl'::..TION
Exploration involves delving into places that are
dangerous and full of mystery. The rules in this
section detail some of the ways adventurers interact
with the environment in such places.
ADVENTURING EQUIPMENT
"--- ---------
As adventurers explore, their equipment can help
them in many ways. For example, they can reach
out-of-the-way places with a Ladder, perceive things
they wouldn't otherwise notice with a Torch or
another light source, bypass locked doors and containers with Thieves' Tools, and create obstacles for
pursuers with Caltrops.
See chapter 6 for rules on many items that are
useful on adventures. The items in that chapter's
"Tools" and "Adventuring Gear" sections are especially useful. The weapons in that chapter can
also be used for more than battle; you could use a
Quarterstaff, for example, to push a sinister-looking
button that you're reluctant to touch.
VISION AND LIGHT
Some adventuring tasks-such as noticing danger,
hitting an enemy, and targeting certain spells-are
affected by sight, so effects that obscure vision can
hinder you, as explained below.
OBSCUR ED AREAS
An area might be Lightly or Heavily Obscured. In
a Lightly Obscured area-such as an area with Dim
Light, patchy fog, or moderate foliage-you have
Disadvantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that
rely on sight.
A Heavily Obscured area-such as an area with
Darkness, heavy fog, or dense foliage-is opaque.
You have the Blinded condition (see the rules glossary) when trying to see something there.
LIGHT
The presence or absence of light determines the category of illumination in an area, as defined below.
Bright Light. Bright Light lets most creatures see
normally. Even gloomy days provide Bright Light,
as do torches, lanterns, fires, and other sources of
illumination within a specific radius.
Dim Light. Dim Light, also called shadows, creates
a Lightly Obscured area. An area of Dim Light is
usually a boundary between Bright Light and surrounding Darkness. The soft light of twilight and
dawn also counts as Dim Light. A full moon might
bathe the land in Dim Light.
Darkness. Darkness creates a Heavily Obscured
area. Characters face Darkness outdoors at night
{even most moonlit nights), within the confines of
an unlit dungeon, or in an area of magical Darkness.
SPECIAL SENSES
Some creatures have special senses that help them
perceive things in certain situations. The rules glossary defines the following special senses:
Blindsight
Darkvision
HIDING
Tremorsense
Truesight
Adventurers and monsters often hide, whether to
spy on one another, sneak past a guardian, or set
an ambush. The Dungeon Master decides when circumstances are appropriate for hiding. When you
try to hide, you take the Hide action.
INTERACTING WITH OBJECTS
Interacting with objects is often simple to resolve.
The player tells the OM that their character is doing something, such as moving a lever or opening a
door, and the OM describes what happens. Sometimes, however, rules govern what you can do with
an object, as detailed in the following sections.
n m •"" -
• &-- •------ - --- -
~
