# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 118/387

r( C O RE R AN GE R TRA ITS
I '.
Primary Ability
Dexterity and Wisdom
Hit Point Die
D10 per Ranger level
saving Throw
Proficiencies
Skill Proficiencies
Weapon Proficiencies
Armor Training
Starting Equipment
Strength and Dexterity
Choose 3: Animal Handling,
Athletics, Insight, Investigation, Nature, Perception,
Stealth, or Survival
Simple and Martial weapons
Light and Medium armor
and Shields
Choose A or B: (A) Studded
Leather Armor, Scimitar,
Shortsword, Longbow, 20
Arrows, Quiver, Druidic
Focus (sprig of mistletoe),
Explorer's Pack, and 7 GP; or
(B) 150 GP
AR FROM BUSTLING CITIES, AMID THE
! r·
trees of trackless forests and across wide
..Ll,
plains, Rangers keep their unending watch in
the wilderness. Rangers learn to track their quarry
as a predator does, moving stealthily through the
wilds and hiding themselves in brush and rubble.
Thanks to their connection with nature, Rangers
can also cast spells that harness primal powers of
the wilderness. A Ranger's talents and magic are
honed with deadly focus to protect the world from
the ravages of monsters and tyrants.
BECOMING A RANGER ...
As A LEVEL l CHARACTER
Gain all the traits in the Core Ranger Traits table.
Gain the Ranger's level 1 features, which are listed
in the Ranger Features table.
As A MULTICLASS CHARACTER
Gain the following traits from the Core Ranger
Traits table: Hit Point Die, proficiency with Martial weapons, proficiency in one skill of your
choice from the Ranger's skill list, and training
with Light and Medium armor and Shields.
Gain the Ranger's level 1 features, which are listed
in the Ranger Features table. See the multiclassing rules in chapter 2 to determine your available
spell slots.
RANGER CLASS FEATURES
As a Ranger, you gain the following class features
when you reach the specified Ranger levels. These
features are listed in the Ranger Features table.
LEVEL 1: SPELLCASTING
You have learned to channel the magical essence of
nature to cast spells. See chapter 7 for the rules on
spellcasting. The information below details how you
use those rules with Ranger spells, which appear in
the Ranger spell list later in the class's description.
Spell Slots. The Ranger Features table shows how
' many spell slots you have to cast your level 1+ spells.
'
You regain all expended slots when you finish a
Long Rest.
Prepared Spells of Level 1+. You prepare the list
of level 1+ spells that are available for you to cast
'
with this feature. To start, choose two level 1
1
Ranger spells. Cure Wounds and Ensnaring Strike are
1 1
recommended.
The number of spells on your list increases as
you gain Ranger levels, as shown in the Prepared
Spells column of the Ranger Features table. Whenever that number increases, choose additional
Ranger spells until the number of spells on your
list matches the number in the Ranger Features
table. The chosen spells must be of a level for which
you have spell slots. For example, if you're a level 5
Ranger, your list of prepared spells can include six
Ranger spells of level 1 or 2 in any combination.
If another Ranger feature gives you spells that
you always have prepared, those spells don't count
against the number of spells you can prepare with
this feature, but those spells otherwise count as
Ranger spells for you.
Changing Your Prepared Spells. Whenever you
finish a Long Rest, you can replace one spell on your
list with another Ranger spell for which you have
spell slots.
Spellcasting Ability. Wisdom is your spellcasting
ability for your Ranger spells.
Spellcasting Focus. You can use a Druidic Focus as
a Spellcasting Focus for your Ranger spells.
LEVEL l: FAVORED ENEMY
You always have the Hunter's Mark spell prepared.
You can cast it twice without expending a spell
slot, and you regain all expended uses of this ability
when you finish a Long Rest.
The number of times you can cast the spell without a spell slot increases when you reach certain
Ranger levels, as shown in the Favored Enemy column of the Ranger Features table.
