# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 301/387

MORDENKAINEN'S SWORD
Level 7 Evocation (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (a miniature sword worth
250+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
You create a spectral sword that hovers within
range. It lasts for the duration.
When the sword appears, you make a melee spell
attack against a target within 5 feet of the sword.
On a hit, the target takes Force damage equal to
4d12 plus your spellcasting ability modifier.
On your later turns, you can take a Bonus Action
to move the sword up to 30 feet to a spot you can
see and repeat the attack against the same target or
a different one.
---- -------
MOVE EARTH
Level 6 Transmutation (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a miniature shovel)
Duration: Concentration, up to 2 hours
:;:::,::=-'-
-
Choose an area of terrain no larger than 40 feet on
a side within range. You can reshape dirt, sand, or
clay in the area in any manner you choose for the
duration. You can raise or lower the area's elevation, create or fill in a trench, erect or flatten a wall,
or form a pillar. The extent of any such changes
can't exceed half the area's largest dimension. For
example, if you affect a 40-foot square, you can
create a pillar up to 20 feet high, raise or lower the
square's elevation by up to 20 feet, dig a trench up
to 20 feet deep, and so on. It takes 10 minutes for
these changes to complete. Because the terrain's
transformation occurs slowly, creatures in the area
can't usually be trapped or injured by the ground's
movement.
At the end of every 10 minutes you spend concentrating on the spell, you can choose a new area of
terrain to affect within range.
This spell can't manipulate natural stone or stone
construction. Rocks and structures shift to accommodate the new terrain. If the way you shape the
terrain would make a structure unstable, it might
collapse.
Similarly, this spell doesn't directly affect plant
growth. The moved earth carries any plants along
with it.
302
CHAPTER 7 I SPE LLS
N ONDETECTION
Level 3 Abjuration (Bard, Ranger, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of diamond dust worth
25+ GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: 8 hours
For the duration, you hide a target that you touch
from Divination spells. The target can be a willing
creature, or it can be a place or an object no larger
than 10 feet in any dimension. The target can't
be targeted by any Divination spell or perceived
through magical scrying sensors.
NYSTUL'S MAGIC AURA
Level 2 Illusion (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (a small square of silk)
Duration: 24 hours
With a touch, you place an illusion on a willing
creature or an object that isn't being worn or carried. A creature gains the Mask effect below, and an
object gains the False Aura effect below. The effect
lasts for the duration. If you cast the spell on the
same target every day for 30 days, the illusion lasts
until dispelled.
Mask (Creature). Choose a creature type other
than the target's actual type. Spells and other magical effects treat the target as if it were a creature of
the chosen type.
False Aura (Object). You change the way the target
appears to spells and magical effects that detect
magical auras, such as Detect Magic. You can make
a nonmagical object appear magical, make a magic
item appear nonmagical, or change the object's aura
so that it appears to belong to a school of magic you
choose.
OTILUKE
1S FREEZING SPH ERE
Level 6 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 300 feet
Components: V, S, M (a miniature crystal sphere)
Duration: Instantaneous
A frigid globe streaks from yoi; to a point of
your choice within range, wh1:n~ ;t explodes in a
60-foot-radius Sphere. Each cr('.atme in that area
makes a Constitution saving '·hrow, taking 10d6
Cold damage on failed save o: l: .:J • as much damage
on a successful one.
