# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 25/387

UNSEEN ATTACKERS AND TARGETS
When you make an attack roll against a target you
can't see, you have Disadvantage on the roll. This
is true whether you're guessing the target's location or targeting a creature you can hear but not
see. If the target isn't in the location you targeted,
you miss.
When a creature can't see you, you have Advantage on attack rolls against it.
If you are hidden when you make an attack roll,
you give away your location when the attack hits
or misses.
cover, only the most protective degree of cover applies; the degrees aren't added together. For example, if a target is behind a creature that gives Half
Cover and a tree trunk that gives Three-Quarters
Cover, the target has Three-Quarters Cover.
COVER
Degree
Benefit to Target
Offered By ...
Half
+2 bonus to AC
Another creature or an
and Dexterity
object that covers at
saving throws
least half of the target
Three-
+5 bonus to AC
An object that covers
Quarters and Dexterity
at least three-quarters
saving throws
of the target
Total
Can't be targeted An object that covers
directly
the whole target
RANGED ATTACKS
When you make a ranged attack, you fire a bow,
hurl an axe, or otherwise send projectiles to strike a
foe at a distance. Many spells also involve making a
ranged attack.
RANGE
You can make ranged attacks only against targets
within a specified range. If a ranged attack, such as
one made with a spell, has a single range, you can't
attack a target beyond this range.
Some ranged attacks, such as those made with a
Longbow, have two ranges. The smaller number is
the normal range, and the larger number is the long
range. Your attack roll has Disadvantage when your
target is beyond normal range, and you can't attack
a target beyond long range.
RANGED ATTACKS IN CLOSE COMBAT
Aiming a ranged attack is more difficult when a foe
is next to you. When you make a ranged attack roll
with a weapon, a spell, or some other means, you
have Disadvantage on the roll if you are within S
feet of an enemy who can see you and doesn't have
the Incapacitated condition (see the rules glossary).
26
CHAPTER 1 I PLAYING THE GAME
MELEE ATTACKS
A melee attack allows you to attack a target within
your reach. A melee attack typically uses a handheld weapon or an Unarmed Strike. Many monsters
make melee attacks with claws, teeth, or other body
parts. A few spells also involve melee attacks.
REACH
A creature has a 5-foot reach and can thus attack
targets within 5 feet when making a melee attack.
Certain creatures have melee attacks with a reach
greater than 5 feet, as noted in their descriptions.
OPPORTUNITY ATTACKS
Combatants watch for enemies to drop their guard.
If you move heedlessly past your foes, you put yourself in danger by provoking an Opportunity Attack.
Avoiding Opportunity Attacks. You can avoid provoking an Opportunity Attack by taking the Disengage action. You also don't provoke an Opportunity
Attack when you Teleport or when you are moved
without using your movement, action, Bonus Action, or Reaction. For example, you don't provoke an
Opportunity Attack if an explosion hurls you out of
a foe's reach or if you fall past an enemy.
Making an Opportunity Attack You can make an
Opportunity Attack when a creature that you can
see leaves your reach. To make the attack, take a
Reaction to make one melee attack with a weapon
or an Unarmed Strike against that creature. The
attack occurs right before it leaves your reach.
MOUNTED COMBAT
A willing creature that is at least one size larger
than a rider and that has an appropriate anatomy
can serve as a mount, using the following rules.
MOUNTING AND DISMOUNTING
During your move, you can mount a creature that
is within 5 feet of you or dismount. Doing so costs
an amount of movement equal to half your Speed
(round down). For example, if your Speed is 30 feet,
you spend 15 feet of movement to mount a horse.
CONTROLLING A MOUNT
You can control a mount only if it has been trained
to accept a rider. Domesticated horses, mules, and
similar creatures have such training.
The Initiative of a controlled mount changes to
match yours when you mount it. It moves on your
turn as you direct it, and it has only three action options during that turn: Dash, Disengage, and Dodge.
A controlled mount can move and act even on the
turn that you mount it.
In contrast, an independent mount-one that lets
you ride but ignores your control-retains its place
in the Initiative order and moves and acts as it likes.
