# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 115/387

LEVEL 7: AURA OF WARDING
Ancient magic lies so heavily upon you that it forms
an eldritch ward, blunting energy from beyond the
Material Plane; you and your allies have Resistance
to Necrotic, Psychic, and Radiant damage while in
your Aura of Protection.
LEVEL 15: UNDYING SENTINEL
When you are reduced to O Hit Points and not killed
outright, you can drop to 1 Hit Point instead, and
you regain a number of Hit Points equal to three
times your Paladin level. Once you use this feature,
you can't do so again until you finish a Long Rest.
Additionally, you can't be aged magically, and you
cease visibly aging.
LEVEL 20: ELDER CHAMPION
As a Bonus Action, you can imbue your Aura of
Protection with primal power, granting the benefits
below for 1 minute or until you end them (no action
required}. Once you use this feature, you can't use it
again until you finish a Long Rest. You can also restore your use of it by expending a level 5 spell slot
(no action required}.
Diminish Defiance. Enemies in the aura have Disadvantage on saving throws against your spells and
Channel Divinity options.
Regeneration. At the start of each of your turns,
you regain 10 Hit Points.
Swift Spells. Whenever you cast a spell that has
a casting time of an action, you can cast it using a
Bonus Action instead.
OATH OF VENGEANCE
Punish Evildoers at Any Cost
The Oath of Vengeance is a solemn commitment to
punish those who have committed grievously evil
acts. When evil armies slaughter helpless villagers,
when a tyrant defies the will of the gods, when a
thieves' guild grows too violent, when a dragon
rampages through the countryside-at times like
these, paladins arise and swear an Oath of Vengeance to set right what has gone wrong.
These paladins share the following tenets:
• Show the wicked no mercy.
• Fight injustice and its causes.
• Aid those harmed by injustice.
LEVEL 3: O ATH OF V ENGEANCE SPELLS
The magic of your oath ensures you always have
certain spells ready; when you reach a Paladin level
specified in the Oath of Vengeance Spells table, you
thereafter always have the listed spells prepared.
