# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 374/387

Creature Type. This entry notes the family of beings a monster belongs to, along with any descriptive tags. See also "Creature Type."
Alignment. An alignment is suggested for the
monster, with the DM determining its actual alignment. See also "Alignment."
AC, Initiative, and HP. These entries give the monster's Armor Class, Initiative, and Hit Points, which
are detailed in chapter 1. In parentheses after the
Hit Points, the monster's Hit Point Dice are provided, along with the contribution of its Constitution, if any, to its Hit Points. Following the Initiative
modifier is an Initiative score. Some creatures that
are created by magic lack Hit Dice and Initiative
information.
Speed. Here the monster's Speed is provided, along
with any special speeds. See also "Burrow Speed,"
"Climb Speed," "Fly Speed," and "Swim Speed."
Ability Scores. A table provides the monster's ability scores, modifiers, and saving throw modifiers, all
of which are detailed in chapter 1.
Skills. This entry lists the monster's skill proficiencies, if any. See also chapter 1 ("Proficiency").
Resistances and Vulnerabilities. These entries list
the monster's Resistances and Vulnerabilities, if any.
See also "Resistance" and "Vulnerability."
Immunities. This section lists the monster's
damage and condition Immunities, if any. See also
"Immunity."
Gear. If the monster has any equipment that can
be given away or retrieved, it's listed in this entry.
Senses. This entry lists the monster's special
senses, such as Darkvision, and its Passive Perception. See also "Passive Perception."
Languages. This entry lists any languages the
monster knows.
CR. Challenge Rating summarizes the threat a
monster poses and is detailed in the Monster Manual.
The Experience Points characters receive for defeating a monster and its Proficiency Bonus follow.
Some creatures that are created by magic have no
CR. See also "Challenge Rating" and "Experience
Points."
Traits. The monster's traits, if any, are features
that an: active at all times or in certain situations.
Actions. The monster can take these actions in
addit•; • n to those detailed in this glossary. See also
chapi c·r 1 ("Actions").
Ho r.us Actions. If the monster has Bonus Action
optio')S, they are listed in this section.
Reactions. If the monster can take special Reactions, those are listed in this section.
Attack Notation. The entry for a monster's attack
starts by identifying whether the attack is a melee
or a ranged attack and then provides the attack
roll's bonus, its reach or range, and what happens
on a hit. An attack is against one target unless its
entry says otherwise.
Saving Throw Effect Notation. If an effect forces a
saving throw, the effect's entry starts by identifying
the kind of saving throw required and then provides the save's DC, a description of which creatures
must make the save, and what happens on a failed
or a successful save.
Damage Notation. A stat block usually provides
both a static number and a die expression for each
instance of damage. For example, an attack might
deal 4 (ld4 + 2) damage on a hit. The DM determines whether you use the static number or the die
expression in parentheses; you don't use both.
!7-
STUDY [ACTION]
When you take the Study action, you make an Intelligence check to study your memory, a book, a clue,
or another source of knowledge and call to mind an
important piece of information about it.
The Areas of Knowledge table suggests which
skills are applicable to various areas of knowledge.
AREAS OF KNOWLEDCE
Skill
Areas
Arcana
Spells, magic items, eldritch symbols,
magical traditions, planes of existence, and certain creatures (Aberrations, Constructs, Elementals, Fey,
and Monstrosities)
History
Historic events and people, ancient
civilizations, wars, and certain creatures (Giants and Humanoids)
Investigation Traps, ciphers, riddles, and gadgetry
Nature
Terrain, flora, weather, and certain
Religion
creatures (Beasts, Dragons, Oozes,
and Plants)
Deities, religious hierarchies and rites,
holy symbols, cults, and certain creatures (Celestials, Fiends, and Undead)
ULEs GL OSSA RY
'>.,r:!
