# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 264/387

DIVINE FA"✓OR
Level J Transmutation (Paladin)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: l minute
Until the spell ends, your attacks with weapons deal
an extra ld4 Radiant damage on a hit.
DIVINE SMITE
Level J Evocation (Paladin)
casting Time: Bonus Action , which you take immediately after hitting a target with a Melee weapon or
an Unarmed Strike
Range: Self
Component: V
Duration: Instantaneous
The target takes an extra 2d8 Radiant damage from
the attack. The damage increases by ld8 if the target is a Fiend or an Undead.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage increases by ld8 for each spell slot level above 1.
D IVI NE WORD
Level 7 Evocation (Cleric)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
You utter a word imbued with power from the Upper Planes. Each creature of your choice in range
makes a Charisma saving throw. On a failed save,
a target that has 50 Hit Points or fewer suffers an
effect based on its current Hit Points, as shown in
the Divine Word Effects table. Regardless of its Hit
Points, a Celestial, an Elemental, a Fey, or a Fiend
target that fails its save is forced back to its plane of
origin (if it isn't there already) and can't return to
the current plane for 24 hours by any means short
of a Wish spell.
DIVINE WO RD EFFECTS
Hit Points Effect
0-20
21 - 30
31-40
41 - 50
The target dies.
The target has the Blinded, Deafened,
and Stunned conditions for l hour.
The target has the Blinded and DeafuH:d conditions for 10 minutes.
Tl 1c target has the Deafened condition
:,_r l minute.
DOMINATE BEAST
Level 4 Enchantment (Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
One Beast you can see within range must succeed
on a Wisdom saving throw or have the Charmed
condition for the duration. The target has Advantage on the save if you or your allies are fighting it.
Whenever the target takes damage, it repeats the
save, ending the spell on itself on a success.
You have a telepathic link with the Charmed target while the two of you are on the same plane of
existence. On your turn, you can use this link to
issue commands to the target (no action required),
such as "Attack that creature," "Move over there,"
or "Fetch that object." The target does its best to
obey on its turn. If it completes an order and doesn't
receive further direction from you, it acts and
moves as it likes, focusing on protecting itself.
You can command the target to take a Reaction
but must take your own Reaction to do so.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Your Concentration can last longer with a spell slot of level 5 (up to
10 minutes), 6 (up to 1 hour), or 7+ (up to 8 hours).
DOMINATE MONSTER
Level 8 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to l hour
One creature you can see within range must
succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the
Charmed condition for the duration. The target has
Advantage on the save if you or your allies are fighting it. Whenever the target takes damage, it repeats
the save, ending the spell on itself on a success.
You have a telepathic link with the Charmed target while the two of you are on the same plane of
existence. On your turn, you can use this link to
issue commands to the target (no action required),
such as "Attack that creature," "Move over there,"
or "Fetch that object." The target does its best to
obey on its turn. If it completes an order and doesn't
receive further direction from you, it acts and
moves as it likes, focusing on protecting itself.
You can command the target to take a Reaction
but must take your own Reaction to do so.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Your Concentration can last longer with a level 9 spell slot (up to 8
hours).
CHAPT ER 7 I SPELLS
26"
