# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 43/387

MULTICLASSING
Multiclassing allows you to gain levels in multiple
classes. With this rule, you have the option of gaining a level in a new class whenever you advance in
level instead of gaining a level in your current class.
Doing so lets you mix the abilities of those classes
to realize a character concept that might not be reflected in a single class.
PREREQUISITES
To qualify for a new class, you must have a score
of at least 13 in the primary ability of the new class
and your current classes. For example, a Barbarian
who decides to multiclass into the Druid class must
have Strength and Wisdom scores of 13 or higher,
since Strength is the primary ability for Barbarians
and Wisdom is the primary ability for Druids.
EXPERIENCE POINTS
The Experience Point cost to gain a level is based on
your total character level, not your level in a particular class, as shown in the Character Advancement
table in this chapter. For example, if you are a level
6 Cleric/ level 1 Fighter, you must gain enough XP
to reach level 8 before you can take your second
level as a Fighter or your seventh level as a Cleric.
HIT POINTS AND HIT POINT DICE
You gain the Hit Points from your new class as
described for levels after 1. You gain the level 1 Hit
Points for a class only when your total character
level is 1.
Add together the Hit Dice granted by all your
classes to form your pool of Hit Dice. If these dice
are the same die type, you can pool them together.
For example, both the Fighter and the Paladin have
a dl0 Hit Die, so if you are a level 5 Fighter/ level 5
Paladin, you have ten dl0 Hit Dice. If your classes
give you Hit Dice of different types, track them separately. If you are a level 5 Cleric / level 5 Paladin,
for example, you have five d8 Hit Dice and five dlO
Hit Dice.
PROFICIENCY BONUS
Your Proficiency Bonus is based on your total character level, not your level in a particular class, as
shown in the Character Advancement table. For
example, if you are a level 3 Fighter/ level 2 Rogue,
you have the Proficiency Bonus of a level 5 character, which is +3.
44
CHAPTER 2 I CREATING A CHARACTER
PROFICIENCIES
When you gain your first level in a class other than
your initial class, you gain only some of the new
class's starting proficiencies, as detailed in each
class's description in chapter 3.
CLASS FEATURES
When you gain a new level in a class, you get its features for that level. A few features have additional
rules when you're multiclassing. Check the information about multiclassing included in each of your
classes' descriptions.
Special rules apply to Extra Attack, Spellcasting,
and features (such as Unarmored Defense) that give
you alternative ways to calculate your Armor Class.
ARMOR CLASS
If you have multiple ways to calculate your Armor
Class, you can benefit from only one at a time. For
example, a Monk/Sorcerer with a Monk's Unarmored Defense feature and a Sorcerer's Draconic
Resilience feature must choose only one of those
features as a way to calculate Armor Class.
EXTRA ATTACK
If you gain the Extra Attack feature from more than
one class, the features don't stack. You can't make
more than two attacks with this feature unless you
have a feature that says you can (such as the Fighter's Two Extra Attacks feature).
Similarly, the Warlock's Thirsting Blade invocation, which grants you the Extra Attack feature
with your pact weapon, doesn't give you additional
attacks if you also have Extra Attack.
SPELLCASTING
Your capacity for spellcasting depends partly on
your combined levels in all your spellcasting classes
and partly on your individual levels in those classes.
Once you have the Spellcasting feature from more
than one class, use the rules below. If you multiclass
but have the Spellcasting feature from only one
class, follow the rules for that class.
Spells Prepared. You determine what spells you
can prepare for each class individually, as if you
were a single-classed member of that class. If you
are a level 4 Ranger/ level 3 Sorcerer, for example,
you can prepare five level 1 Ranger spells, and you
can prepare six Sorcerer spells of level 1 or 2 (as
well as four Sorcerer cantrips).
Each spell you prepare is associated with one of
your classes, and you use the spellcasting ability of
that class when you cast the spell.
Cantrips. If a cantrip of yours increases in power
at higher levels, the increase is based on your total
character level, not your level in a particular class,
unless the spell says otherwise.
