# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 294/387

:MAGIC M ::;SILE
Level 1 Evocation (Sorcer·er, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You create three glowing darts of magical force.
Each dart strikes a creature of your choice that
you can see within range. A dart deals ld4 + 1 Force
damage to its target. The darts all strike simultaneously, and you can direct them to hit one creature
or several.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The spell creates
one more dart for each spell slot level above l.
MAGIC MOUTH
Level 2 Illusion (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (jade dust worth 10+ GP, which
the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled
You implant a message within an object in range-a
message that is uttered when a trigger condition
is met. Choose an object that you can see and that
isn't being worn or carried by another creature.
Then speak the message, which must be 25 words or
fewer, though it can be delivered over as long as 10
minutes. Finally, determine the circumstance that
will trigger the spell to deliver your message.
When that trigger occurs, a magical mouth appears on the object and recites the message in your
voice and at the same volume you spoke. If the object you chose has a mouth or something that looks
like a mouth (for example, the mouth of a statue),
the magical mouth appears there, so the words appear to come from the object's mouth. When you
cast this spell, you can have the spell end after it
delivers its message, or it can remain and repeat its
message whenever the trigger occurs.
The trigger can be as general or as detailed as you
like, though it must be based on visual or audible
conditions that occur within 30 feet of the object.
For example, you could instruct the mouth to speak
when any creature moves within 30 feet of the object or when a .silver bell rings within 30 feet of it.
MAGIC WEAPON
Level 2 Transmutation (Paladin, Ranger, Sorcerer,
Wizard)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range:Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hour
You touch a nonmagical weapon. Until the spell
ends, that weapon becomes a magic weapon with a
+1 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls. The spell
ends early if you cast it again.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The bonus increases to +2 with a level 3-5 spell slot. The bonus
increases to +3 with a level 6+ spell slot.
!.:;..-------·
MAJOR IMAGE
Level 3 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bit of fleece)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You create the image of an object, a creature, or
some other visible phenomenon that is no larger
than a 20-foot Cube. The image appears at a spot
that you can see within range and lasts for the duration. It seems real, including sounds, smells, and
temperature appropriate to the thing depicted, but
it can't deal damage or cause conditions.
If you are within range of the illusion, you can
take a Magic action to cause the image to move to
any other spot within range. As the image changes
location, you can alter its appearance so that its
movements appear natural for the image. For example, if you create an image of a creature and move
it, you can alter the image so that it appears to be
walking. Similarly, you can cause the illusion to
make different sounds at different times, even making it carry on a conversation, for example.
Physical interaction with the image reveals it to
be an illusion, for things can pass through it. A creature that takes a Study action to examine the image
can determine that it is an illusion with a successful Intelligence (Investigation) check against your
spell save DC. If a creature discerns the illusion for
what it is, the creature can see through the image,
and its other sensory qualities become faint to the
creature.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The spell lasts until
dispelled, without requiring Concentration, if cast
with a level 4+ spell slot.
CH APTER 7 l SPELLS
295
