# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 66/387

You always :1ave the chosen spells prepared, and
whenever you ga in a Bard level, you can replace
one of the pelts with another spell that meets these
requirements.
LEVEL 14: PEERLESS SKILL
When you make an ability check or attack roll and
fail. you can expend one use of Bardic Inspiration;
roll the Bardic Inspiration die, and add the number
rolled to the d20, potentially turning a failure into
a success. On a failure, the Bardic Inspiration isn't
expended.
COLLEGE OF VALOR
Sing the Deeds of Ancient Heroes
Bards of the College of Valor are daring storytellers whose tales preserve the memory of the great
heroes of the past. These Bards sing the deeds of
the mighty in vaulted halls or to crowds gathered
around great bonfires. They travel to witness great
events firsthand and to ensure that the memory of
these events doesn't pass away. With their songs,
they inspire new generations to reach the same
heights of accomplishment as the heroes of old.
LEVEL 3: COMBAT INSPIRATION
You can use your wit to turn the tide of battle. A
creature that has a Bardic Inspiration die from you
can use it for one of the following effects.
Defense. When the creature is hit by an attack
roll, that creature can use its Reaction to roll the
Bardic Inspiration die and add the number rolled to
its AC against that attack, potentially causing the
attack to miss.
Offense. Immediately after the creature hits a
target with an attack roll, the creature can roll the
Bardic Inspiration die and add the number rolled to
the attack's damage against the target.
LEVEL 3: MARTIAL 'TRAINING
You gain proficiency with Martial weapons and
training with Medium armor and Shields.
In addition, you can use a Simple or Martial
weapon as a Spellcasting Focus to cast spells from
your Bard spell list.
LEVEL 6: EXTRA ATTACK
You can attack twice instead of once whenever you
take the Attack action on your turn.
In addition, you can cast one of your can trips that
has a casting time of an action in place of one of
those attacks.
LEVEL 14: BATTLE MAGIC
After you cast a spell that has a casting time of an
action, you can make one attack with a weapon as a
Bonus Action.
