# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 12/387

IF y ou H /\v E Ao v/\ NT/\ GE, u s e TH E 18 .
IF Y O U H/\VE 01 S/\ OVANT/\GE , u s e THE 3.
INTERACTIONS WITH REROLLS
When you have Advantage or Disadvantage and
something in the game lets you reroll or replace
the d20, you can reroll or replace only one die, not
both. You choose which one.
For example, if you have Heroic Inspiration (see
the sidebar) and roll a 3 and an 18 on an ability
check that has Advantage or Disadvantage, you
could expend your Heroic Inspiration to reroll one
of those dice, not both of them.
HEROIC INSPIRATION
Sometimes the DM or a rule gives you Heroic
Inspiration. If you have Heroic Inspiration, you
can expend it to reroll any die immediately after
rolling it, and you must use the new roll.
Only One at a Time. You can never have more
than one instance of Heroic Inspiration. If some•
thing gives you Heroic Inspiration and you already have it, you can give it to a player character
in your group who lacks it.
Gaining Heroic Inspiration. Your DM can give
you Heroic Inspiration for a variety of reasons.
Typically, DMs award it when you do something
particularly heroic, in character, or entertaining.
It's a reward for making the game more fun for
everyone playing.
Other rules might allow your character to gain
Heroic Inspiration independent of the DM's decision. For example, Human characters start each
day with Heroic Inspiration.
PROFICIENCY
Characters and monsters are good at various things.
Some are skilled with many weapons, while others
can use only a few. Some are better at understanding people's motives, and others are better at unlocking the secrets of the multiverse. All creatures
have a Proficiency Bonus, which reflects the impact
that training has on the creature's capabilities. A
character's Proficiency Bonus increases as the character gains levels (described in chapter 2). Amonster's Proficiency Bonus is based on its Challenge
Rating (see the rules glossary). The Proficiency Bonus table shows how the bonus is determined.
This bonus is applied to a D20 Test when the creature has proficiency in a skill, in a saving throw, or
with an item that the creature uses to make the D20
Test. The bonus is also used for spell attacks and for
calculating the DC of saving throws for spells.
PROFICIENCY BONUS
Level or CR
Bonus
Level or CR
Bonus
Up to 4
+2
17-20
+6
5-8
+3
21-24
+7
9-12
+4
25-28
+8
13-16
+5
29-30
+9
THE BONUS DOESN'T STACK
Your Proficiency Bonus can't be added to a die roll
or another number more than once. For example, if
a rule allows you to make a Charisma (Deception or
Persuasion) check, you add your Proficiency Bonus
if you're proficient in either skill, but you don't add
it twice if you're proficient in both skills.
Occasionally, a Proficiency Bonus might be multiplied or divided (doubled or halved, for example) before being added. For example, the Expertise feature
(see the rules glossary) doubles the Proficiency Bonus for certain ability checks. Whenever the bonus
is used, it can be multiplied only once and divided
only once.
SKILL PROFICIENCIES
Most ability checks involve using a skill, which represents a category of things creatures try to do with
an ability check. The descriptions of the actions
you take (see "Actions" later in this chapter) specify
which skill applies if you make an ability check for
that action, and many other rules note when a skill
is relevant. The OM has the ultimate say on whether
a skill is relevant in a situation.
If a creature is proficient in a skill, the creature
applies its Proficiency Bonus to ability checks involving that skill. Without proficiency in a skill,
a creature can still make ability checks involving
CH APTE R I l PL AYI NG TH E GAME
13
