# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 276/387

foUNT OF MOONLIGHT
Level 4 Evocation (Bard, Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
A cool light wreathes your body for the duration,
emitting Bright Light in a 20-foot radius and Dim
Light for an additional 20 feet.
Until the spell ends, you have Resistance to Radiant damage, and your melee attacks deal an extra
2d6 Radiant damage on a hit.
In addition, immediately after you take damage
from a creature you can see within 60 feet of yourself, you can take a Reaction to force the creature to
make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save,
the creature has the Blinded condition until the end
of your next turn.
.....
.::-
FREEDOM OF MOVEMENT
Level 4 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (a leather strap)
Duration: 1 hour
You touch a willing creature. For the duration, the
target's movement is unaffected by Difficult Terrain,
and spells and other magical effects can neither reduce the target's Speed nor cause the target to have
the Paralyzed or Restrained conditions. The target
also has a Swim Speed equal to its Speed.
In addition, the target can spend 5 feet of movement to automatically escape from nonmagical
restraints, such as manacles or a creature imposing
the Grappled condition on it.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one
additional creature for each spell slot level above 4.
FRIENDS
Enchantment Cantrip (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 10 feet
Components: S, M (some makeup)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You magically emanate a sense of friendship toward
one creature you can see within range. The target
must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have
the Charmed condition for the duration. The target succeeds ::mtomatically if it isn't a Humanoid, if
you're fighting it, or if you have cast this spell on it
within the ,ast 24 hours.
The spell ends early if the target takes damage
or if you make an attack roll, deal damage, or force
anyone to make a saving throw. When the spell
ends, the target knows it was Charmed by you.
GASEOUS FORM
Level 3 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (a bit of gauze)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
A willing creature you touch shape-shifts, along
with everything it's wearing and carrying, into
a misty cloud for the duration. The spell ends on
the target if it drops to O Hit Points or if it takes a
Magic action to end the spell on itself.
While in this form, the target's only method
of movement is a Fly Speed of 10 feet, and it can
hover. The target can enter and occupy the space
of another creature. The target has Resistance to
Bludgeoning, Piercing, and Slashfog damage; it has
Immunity to the Prone condition; and it has Advantage on Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution
saving throws. The target can pass through narrow
openings, but it treats liquids as though they were
solid surfaces.
The target can't talk or manipulate objects, and
any objects it was carrying or holding can't be
dropped, used, or otherwise interacted with. Finally, the target can't attack or cast spells.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one
additional creature for each spell slot level above 3.
GATE
Level 9 Conjuration (Cleric, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth 5,000+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You conjure a portal linking an unoccupied space
you can see within range to a precise location on a
different plane of existence. The portal is a circular
opening, which you can make 5 to 20 feet in diameter. You can orient the portal in any direction you
choose. The portal lasts for the duration, and the
portal's destination is visible through it.
The portal has a front and a hack on each plane
where it appears. Travel through the portal is possible only by moving through its front. Anything that
does so is instantly transported to the other plane,
appearing in the unoccupied space nearest to the
portal.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
