# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 22/387

COMBAT
Adventurers encounter many dangerous monsters
and nefarious villains. In those moments, combat
often breaks out.
THE ORDER OF COMBAT
A typical combat encounter is a clash between two
sides: a flurry of weapon swings, feints, parries,
footwork, and spellcasting. The game organizes
combat into a cycle of rounds and turns. A round
represents about 6 seconds in the game world.
During a round, each participant in a battle takes a
turn. The order of turns is determined at the beginning of combat when everyone rolls Initiative. Once
everyone has taken a turn, the fight continues to
the next round if neither side is defeated.
COMBAT STEP BY STEP
Combat unfolds in these steps:
1: Establish Positions. The Dungeon Master determines where all the characters and monsters are
located. Given the adventurers' marching order
or their stated positions in the room or other location, the DM figures out where the adversaries
are-how far away and in what direction.
2: Roll Initiative. Everyone involved in the combat
encounter rolls Initiative, determining the order
of combatants' turns.
3: Take Turns. Each participant in the battle takes
a turn in Initiative order. When everyone involved in the combat has had a turn, the round
ends. Repeat this step until the fighting stops.
INITIATIVE
Initiative determines the order of turns during
combat. When combat starts, every participant
rolls Initiative; they make a Dexterity check that
determines their place in the Initiative order. The
OM rolls for monsters. For a group of identical creatures, the OM makes a single roll, so each member
of the group has the same Initiative.
Surprise. If a combatant is surprised by combat
starting, that combatant has Disadvantage on their
Initiative roll. For example, if an ambusher starts
combat while hidden from a foe who is unaware
that combat is starting, that foe is surprised.
Initiative Order. A combatant's check total is
called their Initiative count, or Initiative for short.
The OM ranks the combatants, from highest to
lowest Initiative. This is the order in which they act
during each round. The Initiative order remains the
same from round to round.
Ties. If a tie occurs, the DM decides the order
among tied monsters, and the players decide the
order among tied characters. The DM decides the
order if the tie is between a monster and a player
character.
YOUR TuRN
On your turn, you can move a distance up to your
Speed and take one action. You decide whether to
move first or take your action first.
The main actions you can take are listed in "Actions" earlier in this chapter. A character's features
and a monster's stat block also provide action options. "Movement and Position" later in this chapter
gives the rules for movement.
C H APTE R l I PLAY I NG T H E GA M E
23
