# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 368/387

ILLUS IONS
Spells and other effects sometimes create magical illusions. Such an effect defines what the illusion does
and which senses or mental faculties it deceives.
If an illusion manifests in space, the illusion is
insubstantial and weightless, yet it seems to be affected by the environment as if the illusion were
real unless the effect that created it specifies otherwise. For example, a visual illusion of a creature
casts shadows and reflections, and wind appears
to affect the illusory creature. Similarly, an audible
illusion echoes in an echoey space.
IMMUNITY
If you have Immunity to a damage type or a condition, it doesn't affect you in any way.
IMPROVISED WEAPONS
An improvised weapon is an object wielded as a
makeshift weapon, such as broken glass, a table leg,
or a frying pan. A Simple or Martial weapon also
counts as an improvised weapon if it's wielded in
a way contrary to its design; if you use a Ranged
weapon to make a melee attack or throw a Melee weapon that lacks the Thrown property, the
weapon counts as an improvised weapon. An improvised weapon follows the rules below.
Proficiency. Don't add your Proficiency Bonus to
attack rolls with an improvised weapon.
Damage. On a hit, the weapon deals ld4 damage of
a type the OM thinks is appropriate for the object.
Range. If you throw the weapon, it has a normal
range of 20 feet and a long range of 60 feet.
Weapon Equivalents. If an improvised weapon
resembles a Simple or Martial weapon, the DM may
say it functions as that weapon and uses that weapon's rules. For example, the OM could treat a table
leg as a Club.
INC A PACITATED [CONDITION]
While you have the Incapacitated condition, you
experience the following effects.
Inactive. You can't take any action, Bonus Action,
or Reaction.
No Concentration. Your Concentration is broken.
Speechless. You can't speak.
Surprised. If you're Incapacitated when you roll
Initiative, you have Disadvantage on the roll.
INDIFFERENT [ATTITUDE]
An Indifferent creature has no desire to help or
hinder you. Indifferent is the default attitude of a
monster. See also "Influence."
INFLUENCE [ACTION]
With the Influence action, you urge a monster to
do something. Describe or roleplay how you're
communicating with the monster. Are you trying
to deceive, intimidate, amuse, or gently persuade?
The DM then determines whether the monster feels
willing, unwilling, or hesitant due to your interaction; this determination establishes whether an ability check is necessary, as explained below.
Willing. If your urging aligns with the monster's
desires, no ability check is necessary; the monster
fulfills your request in a way it prefers.
Unwilling. If your urging is repugnant to the monster or counter to its alignment, no ability check is
necessary; it doesn't comply.
Hesitant. If you urge the monster to do something
that it is hesitant to do, you must make an ability
check, which is affected by the monster's attitude:
Indifferent, Friendly, or Hostile, each of which is
defined in this glossary. The Influence Checks table suggests which ability check to make based on
how you're interacting with the monster. The DM
chooses the check, which has a default DC equal to
15 or the monster's Intelligence score, whichever is
higher. On a successful check, the monster does as
urged. On a failed check, you must wait 24 hours
(or a duration set by the DM) before urging it in the
same way again.
INFLUENCE CHECKS
Ability Check
Interaction
Charisma (Deception)
Deceiving a monster
that understands you
Charisma (Intimidation)
Intimidating a monster
Charisma (Performance)
Amusing a monster
Charisma (Persuasion)
Persuading a monster
that understands you
Wisdom (Animal Handling) Gently coaxing a Beast
or Monstrosity
--- ____ 'C---""_....,,,, __
INITIATIVE
Initiative determines the order of turns during combat. The combat rules in chapter l explain how to
roll Initiative.
Sometimes a DM might have combatants use
their Initiative scores instead of rolling Initiative.
Your Initiative score equals 10 plus your Dexterity
APPENDIX C I RU LES GLOSSARY
369
