# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 236/387

A Material component is a particular material
used in a spell's casting, as specified in parentheses
in the Components entry. These materials aren't
consumed by the spell unless the spell's description
states otherwise. The spellcaster must have a hand
free to access them, but it can be the same hand
used to perform Somatic components, if any.
If a spell doesn't consume its materials and doesn't
specify a cost for them, a spellcaster can use a Component Pouch (see chapter 6) instead of providing
the materials specified in the spell, or the spellcaster
can substitute a Spellcasting Focus if the caster
has a featu re that allows that substitution. To use
a Component Pouch, you must have a hand free to
reach into it, and to use a Spellcasting Focus, you
must hold it unless its description says otherwise
(see chapter 6 for descriptions).
CREATING VERBAL COMPONENTS
If you'd like to say a spell's Verbal component,
you may make up the words. However you make
them, the goal is to create something that's easy
to say and that doesn't mean anything in the real
world. Consider this method: take the name of
the spell, keep only one instance of each of its
letters, and rearrange the remaining letters into
words. For example, remove the second I from
Fireball and rearrange the remaining letters to
create Ber FifCi or Fe/ Bira.
A spell's duration is the length of time the spell persists after it is cast. A duration typically takes one of
the following forms:
Concentration. A duration that requires Concentration follows the Concentration rules (see the
rules glossary).
Instantaneous. An instantaneous duration means
the spell's magic appears only for a moment and
then disappears.
Time Span. A duration that provides a time span
specifies how long the spell lasts in rounds, minutes, hours, or the like. For example, a Duration
entry might say "1 minute," meaning the spell ends
after 1 minute has passed. While a time-span spell
that you cast is ongoing, you can dismiss it (no action required) if you don't have the Incapacitated
condition.
EFFECTS
The effects of a spell are detailed after its duration
entry. Those details present exactly what the spell
does, which ignores mundane physical laws; any
outcomes beyond those effects are under the DM's
purview. Whatever the effects, they typically deal
with targets, saving throws, attack rolls, or all
three, each of which is detailed below.
T ARGETS
A typical spell requires the caster to pick one or
more targets to be affected by the spell's magic. A
spelJ's description says whether the spell targets
creatures, objects, or something else.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
237
