# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 11/387

SAVING THROW EXAMPLES
Ability
Make a Save To ...
Strength
Physically resist direct force
Dexterity
Dodge out of harm's way
Constitution
Endure a toxic hazard
Intelligence
Recognize an illusion as fake
Wisdom
Resist a mental assault
Charisma
Assert your identity
PROFICIENCY BONUS
You add your Proficiency Bonus to your saving
throw if you have proficiency in that kind of save.
See "Proficiency" later in this chapter.
DIFFICULTY CLASS
The Difficulty Class for a saving throw is determined by the effect that causes it or by the DM. For
example, if a spell forces you to make a save, the DC
is determined by the caster's spellcasting ability and
Proficiency Bonus. Monster abilities that call for
saves specify the DC.
ATTACK ROLLS
An attack roll determines whether an attack hits
a target. An attack roll hits if the roll equals or exceeds the target's Armor Class. Attack rolls usually
occur in battle, described in "Combat" later in this
chapter, but the DM might also ask for an attack roll
in other situations, such as an archery competition.
ABILITY MODIFIER
The Attack Roll Abilities table shows which ability
modifier to use for different types of attack rolls.
ATTACK ROLL ABILITIES
Ability
Attack Type
Strength
Melee attack with a weapon or an Unarmed Strike (see the rules glossary)
Dexterity
Ranged attack with a weapon
Varies
Spell attack (the ability used is determined by the spellcaster's spellcasting
feature, as explained in chapter 7)
Some features let you use different ability modifiers
from those listed. For example, the Finesse property
(see chapter 6) lets you use Strength or Dexterity
with a weapon that has that property.
PROFICIENCY BONUS
You add your Proficiency Bonus to your attack roll
when you attack using a weapon you have proficiency with, as well as when you attack with a spell.
See "Proficiency" later in this chapter for more information about weapon proficiencies.
12
CHAPTER 1 I PLAYI NG TH E GAME
ARMOR CLASS
A creature's Armor Class represents how well the
creature avoids being wounded in combat. The AC
of a character is determined at character creation
(see chapter 2), whereas the AC of a monster appears in its stat block.
Calculating AC. All creatures start with the same
base AC calculation:
Base AC= 10 + the creature's Dexterity modifier
A creature's AC can then be modified by armor,
magic items, spells, and more.
Only One Base AC. Some spells and class features
give characters a different way to calculate their
AC. A character with multiple features that give different ways to calculate AC must choose which one
to use; only one base calculation can be in effect for
a creature.
ROLLING 20 OR 1
If you roll a 20 on the d20 (called a "natural 20")
for an attack roll, the attack hits regardless of any
modifiers or the target's AC. This is called a Critical
Hit (see "Combat" later in this chapter).
If you roll a 1 on the d20 (a "natural 1") for an attack roll, the attack misses regardless of any modifiers or the target's AC.
ADVANTAGE/DISADVANTAGE
Sometimes a D20 Test is modified by Advantage
or Disadvantage. Advantage reflects the positive
circumstances surrounding a d20 roll, while Disadvantage reflects negative circumstances.
You usually acquire Advantage or Disadvantage
through the use of special abilities and actions. The
DM can also decide that circumstances grant Advantage or impose Disadvantage.
ROLL Two D20s
When a roll has either Advantage or Disadvantage,
roll a second d20 when you make the roll. Use the
higher of the two rolls if you have Advantage, and
use the lower roll if you have Disadvantage. For example, if you have Disadvantage and roll an 18 and a
3, use the 3. If you instead have Advantage and roll
those numbers, use the 18.
THEY DON'T STACK
If multiple situations affect a roll and they all grant
Advantage on it, you still roll only two d20s. Similarly, if multiple situations impose Disadvantage on
a roll, you roll only two d20s.
If circumstances cause a roll to have both Advantage and Disadvantage, the roll has neither of them,
and you roll one d20. This is true even if multiple
circumstances impose Disadvantage and only one
grants Advantage or vice versa. In such a situation,
you have neither Advantage nor Disadvantage.
