# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 262/387

To discern that you are disguised, a creature must
take the Study action to inspect your appearance
and succeed on an Intelligence (Investigation) check
against your spell save DC.
D ISINT EGRATE
Level 6 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a lodestone and dust)
Duration: Instantaneous
You launch a green ray at a target you can see
within range. The target can be a creature, a nonmagical object, or a creation of magical force, such
as the wall created by Wall of Force.
A creature targeted by this spell makes a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes
10d6 + 40 Force damage. If this damage reduces it
to O Hit Points, it and everything nonmagical it is
wearing and carrying are disintegrated into gray
dust. The target can be revived only by a True Resurrection or a Wish spell.
This spell mii.omatically disintegrates a Large or
smaller nonrnr; ·ical object or a creation of magical
force. If su h ··, target is Huge or larger, this spell
disintegrate:-., . iO-foot-Cube portion of it.
Using a Hie):: ,·-Level Spell Slot. The damage increases by ~i • ·: • u r each spell slot level above 6.
D1sPEL EvIL AND Goon
Level 5 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (powdered silver and iron)
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
For the duration, Celestials, Elementals, Fey, Fiends,
and Undead have Disadvantage on attack rolls
against you. You can end the spell early by using either of the following special functions.
Break Enchantment. As a Magic action, you touch
a creature that is possessed by or has the Charmed
or Frightened condition from one or more creatures
of the types above. The target is no longer possessed, Charmed, or Frightened by such creatures.
Dismissal. As a Magic action, you target one creature you can see within 5 feet of you that has one of
the creature types above. The target must succeed
on a Charisma saving throw or be sent back to its
home plane if it isn't there already. If they aren't on
their home plane, Undead are sent to the Shadowfell, and Fey are sent to the Feywild.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
263
