# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 80/387

W hen you reach certain Druid levels, your number of known forms and the maximum Challenge
Rating for those forms increases, as shown in the
Beast Shapes table. In addition, starting at level 8,
you can adopt a form that has a Fly Speed.
When choosing known forms, you may look in the
Monster Manual or elsewhere for eligible Beasts if
the Dungeon Master permits you to do so.
BEAST SHAPES
Druid
Known
Max
Fly
Level
Forms
CR
Speed
2
4
1/4
No
4
6
1/2
No
8
8
Yes
Rules While Shape-Shifted. While in a form, you
retain your personality, memories, and ability to
speak, and the following rules apply:
Temporary Hit Points. When you assume a Wild
Shape form, you gain a number of Temporary Hit
Points equal to your Druid level.
Game Statistics. Your game statistics are replaced
by the Beast's stat block, but you retain your creature type; Hit Points; Hit Point Dice; Intelligence,
Wisdom, and Charisma scores; class features;
languages; and feats. You also retain your skill
and saving throw proficiencies and use your Proficiency Bonus for them, in addition to gaining the
proficiencies of the creature. If a skill or saving
throw modifier in the Beast's stat block is higher
than yours, use the one in the stat block.
No Spellcasting. You can't cast spells, but shapeshifting doesn't break your Concentration or otherwise interfere with a spell you've already cast.
Objects. Your ability to handle objects is determined by the form's limbs rather than your own.
In addition, you choose whether your equipment
falls in your space, merges into your new form, or
is worn by it. Worn equipment functions as normal, but the OM decides whether it's practical for
the new form to wear a piece of equipment based
on the creature's size and shape. Your equipment
doesn't change size or shape to match the new
form, and any equipment that the new form can't
wear must either fall to the ground or merge with
the form. Equipment that merges with the form
has no effect while you're in that form.
LEVEL 2: WILD COMPANION
You can summon a nature spirit that assumes an
animal form to aid you. As a Magic action, you can
expend a spell slot or a use of Wild Shape to cast the
Find Familiar spell without Material components.
When you cast the spell in this way, the familiar is
Fey and disappears when you finish a Long Rest.
LEVEL 3: DRUID SUBCLASS
You gain a Druid subclass of your choice. The Circle
of the Land, Circle of the Moon, Circle of the Sea,
and Circle of the Stars subclasses are detailed after
this class's description. A subclass is a specialization
that grants you features at certain Druid levels. For
the rest of your career, you gain each of your subclass's features that are of your Druid level or lower.
LEVEL 4: ABILITY SCORE IMPROVEMENT
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see
chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which
you qualify. You gain this feature again at Druid
levels 8, 12, and 16.
LEVEL 5: WILD RESURGENCE
Once on each of your turns, if you have no uses of
Wild Shape left, you can give yourself one use by
expending a spell slot (no action required).
In addition, you can expend one use of Wild Shape
(no action required) to give yourself a level 1 spell
slot, but you can't do so again until you finish a
Long Rest.
LEVEL 7: ELEMENTAL FURY
The might of the elements flows through you. You
gain one of the following options of your choice.
Potent Spellcasting. Add your Wisdom modifier to
the damage you deal with any Druid cantrip.
Primal Strike. Once on each of your turns when
you hit a creature with an attack roll using a
weapon or a Beast form's attack in Wild Shape, you
can cause the target to take an extra ld8 Cold, Fire,
Lightning, or Thunder damage (choose when you
hit).
LEVEL 15: IMPROVED ELEMENTAL FURY
The option you chose for Elemental Fury grows
more powerful, as detailed below.
Potent Spellcasting. When you cast a Druid cantrip with a range of 10 feet or greater, the spell's
range increases by 300 feet.
Primal Strike. The extra damage of your Primal
Strike increases to 2d8.
LEVEL 18: BEAST SPELLS
While using Wild Shape, you can cast spells in
Beast form, except for any spell that has a Material
component with a cost specified or that consumes
its Material component.
LEVEL 19: EPIC BOON
You gain an Epic Boon feat (see chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which you qualify.
Boon of Dimensional Travel is recommended.
CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES
8
