# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 205/387

PIERCER
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or
Dexterity by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Puncture. Once per turn, when you hit a creature
with an attack that deals Piercing damage, you can
reroll one of the attack's damage dice, and you must
use the new roll.
Enhanced Critical. When you score a Critical Hit
that deals Piercing damage to a creature, you can
roll one additional damage die when determining
the extra Piercing damage the target takes.
POISONER
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Dexterity or
Intelligence score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Potent Poison. When you make a damage roll that
deals Poison damage, it ignores Resistance to Poison
damage.
Brew Poison. You gain proficiency with the Poisoner's Kit. With 1 hour of work using such a kit and
expending 50 GP worth of materials, you can create
a number of poison doses equal to your Proficiency
Bonus. As a Bonus Action, you can apply a poison
dose to a weapon or piece of ammunition. Once
applied, the poison retains its potency for 1 minute
or until you hit with the poisoned item, whichever
is shorter. When a creature takes damage from
the poisoned item, that creature must succeed on a
Constitution saving throw (DC 8 plus the modifier
of the ability increased by this feat and your Proficiency Bonus) or take 2d8 Poison damage and have
the Poisoned condition until the end of your next
turn.
POLEARM MASTER
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4 +, Strength or
Dexterity 13+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Dexterity or
Strength score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Pole Strike. Immediately after you take the Attack
action and attack with a Quarterstaff, a Spear, or a
weapon that has the Heavy and Reach properties,
you can use a Bonus Action to make a melee attack
with the opposite end of the weapon. The weapon
deals Bludgeoning damage, and the weapon's damage die for this attack is a d4.
Reactive Strike. While you're holding a Quarterstaff, a Spear, or a weapon that has the Heavy and
Reach properties, you can take a Reaction to make
one melee attack against a creature that enters the
reach you have with that weapon.
RESILIENT
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Choose one ability in which
you lack saving throw proficiency. Increase the chosen ability score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Saving Throw Proficiency. You gain saving throw
proficiency with the chosen ability.
RITUAL CASTER
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+; Intelligence,
Wisdom, or Charisma 13+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Intelligence,
Wisdom, or Charisma score by 1, to a maximum of
20.
Ritual Spells. Choose a number of level 1 spells
equal to your Proficiency Bonus that have the Ritual tag. You always have those spells prepared, and
you can cast them with any spell slots you have. The
