# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 329/387

Pain. Each target must succeed on a Constitution
saving throw or have the Incapacitated condition
for 1 minute.
Sleep. Each target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the Unconscious condition for I?
minutes. A creature awakens if it takes damage or if
someone takes an action to shake it awake.
Stunning. Each target must succeed on a Wisdom
saving throw or have the Stunned condition for 1
minute.
SYNAPTIC STATIC
Level 5 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You cause psychic energy to erupt at a point within
range. Each creature in a 20-foot-radius Sphere
centered on that point makes an Intelligence saving
throw, taking 8d6 Psychic damage on a failed save
or half as much damage on a successful one.
On a failed save, a target also has muddled
thoughts for 1 minute. During that time, it subtracts
ld6 from all its attack rolls and ability checks, as
well as any Constitution saving throws to maintain
Concentration. The target makes an Intelligence
saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending
the effect on itself on a success.
TASHA'S BUBBLING CAULDRON
Level 6 Conjurntion (Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 5 feet
Component: V, S, M (a gilded ladle worth 500+ GP)
Duration: 10 minutes
You conjure a claw-footed cauldron filled with bubbling liquid. The cauldron appears in an unoccupied
space on the ground within S feet of you and lasts
for the duration. The cauldron can't be moved and
disappears when the spell ends, along with the bubbling liquid inside it.
The liquid in the cauldron duplicates the properties of a Common or an Uncommon potion of
your choice (such as a Potion of Healing). As a Bonus
Action, you or an ally can reach into the cauldron
and withdraw one potion of that kind. The potion is
contained in a vial that disappears when the potion
is consumed. The cauldron can produce a number
of these potions equal to your spell casting ability
modifier (minimum 1). When the last of these potions is withdrawn from the cauldron, the cauldron
disappears, and the spell ends.
Potions obtained from the cauldron that aren't
consumed disappear when you cast this spell again.
