# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 134/387

Sou ~-~-: :~ IFE _
Strike Foes with Psionic Blades
A Soulknife strikes with the mind, cutting through
barriers both physical and psychic. These Rogues
discover psionic power within themselves and
channel it to do their roguish work. As a Soulknife
your psionic abilities might have haunted you sine~
childhood. revealing their full potential only as you
experienced the stress of adventure. Or you might
have sought out an order of psychic adepts and
spent years learning how to manifest your power.
LEVEL 3: PSION IC POWER
You harbor a wellspring of psionic energy within
yourself. It is represented by your Psionic Energy
Dice, which fuel certain powers you have from this
subclass. The Soulknife Energy Dice table shows the
number of these dice you have when you reach certain Rogue levels, and the table shows the die size.
SoULKNIFE ENERGY DICE
Rogue Level
Die Size
Number
3
06
4
5
08
6
9
08
8
11
Dl0
8
13
010
10
17
Dl2
12
Any features in this subclass that use a Psionic Energy Die use only the dice from this subclass. Some
of your powers expend a Psionic Energy Die, as
specified in a power's description, and you can't use
a power if it requires you to use a die when your
Psionic Energy Dice are all expended.
You regain one of your expended Psionic
Energy Dice when you finish a Short Rest, and
you regain all of them when you finish a Long
Rest.
Psi-Bolstered Knack If you fail an ability check using a skill or tool with which you have proficiency,
you can roll one Psionic Energy Die and add the
number rolled to the check, potentially turning failure into success. The die is expended only if the roll
then succeeds.
Psychic Whispers. You can establish telepathic
communication between yourself and others. As
a Magic action, choose one or more creatures you
can see, up to a number of creatures equal to your
Proficiency Bonus, and then roll one Psionic Energy
Die. For a number of hours equal to the number
rolled, the chosen creatures can speak telepathically
with you. and you can speak telepathically with
them. To s nd or receive a message (no action required), you ,, nd the other creature must be within 1
