# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 208/387

.,
J
Detect Thoughts. You always have the Detect
Tlioughts spell prepared. You can cast it without a
spell slot or spell components, and you must finish
a Long Rest before you can cast it in this way again.
You can also cast it using spell slots you have of the
appropriate level. Your spellcasting ability for the
spell is the ability increased by this feat.
WAR CASTER
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Spellcasting or Pact
Magic Feature)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Intelligence,
Wisdom, or Charisma score by 1, to a maximum of
20.
Concentration. You have Advantage on Constitution saving throws that you make to maintain
Concentration.
Reactive Spell. When a creature provokes an Opportunity Attack from you by leaving your reach,
you can take a Reaction to cast a spell at the creature rather than making an Opportunity Attack.
The spell must have a casting time of one action and
must target only that creature.
Somatic Components. You can perform the Somatic components of spells even when you have
weapons or a Shield in one or both hands.
WEAPON MASTER
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or
Dexterity score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Mastery Property. Your training with weapons allows you to use the mastery property of one kind of
Simple or Martial weapon of your choice, provided
you have proficiency with it. Whenever you finish
a Long Rest, you can change the kind of weapon to
another eligible kind.
FIGHTING STYLE FEATS
These feats are in the Fighting Style category.
ARCHERY
Fighting Style Feat (Prerequisite: Fighting Style Feature)
You gain a +2 bonus to attack rolls you make with
Ranged weapons.
BLIND Fw : ,·n N G
Fighting Style Feat (Prerequisite: Fighting Style Feature)
You have Blindsight with a range of 10 feet.
DEFENSE
Fighting Style Feat (Prerequisite: Fighting Style Feature)
While you're wearing Light, Medium, or Heavy armor, you gain a +1 bonus to Armor Class.
~---------
DUELING
Fighting Style Feat (Prerequisite: Fighting Style Feature)
When you're holding a Melee weapon in one hand
and no other weapons, you gain a +2 bonus to damage rolls with that weapon.
;::::==
GREAT WEAPON FIGHTING
Fighting Style Feat (Prerequisite: Fighting Style Feature)
When you roll damage for an attack you make with
a Melee weapon that you are holding with two
hands, you can treat any 1 or 2 on a damage die as a
3. The weapon must have the Two-Handed or Versatile property to gain this benefit.
INTERCEPTION
Fighting Style Feat (Prerequisite: Fighting Style Feature)
When a creature you can see hits another creature
within 5 feet of you with an attack roll, you can
take a Reaction to reduce the damage dealt to the
target by ldl0 plus your Proficiency Bonus. You
must be holding a Shield or a Simple or Martial
weapon to use this Reaction.
PROTECTION
Fighting Style Feat (Prerequisite: Fighting Style Feature)
When a creature you can see attacks a target other
than you that is within 5 feet of you, you can take a
Reaction to interpose your Shield if you're holding
one. You impose Disadvantage on the triggering
attack roll and all other attack rolls against the target until the start of your next turn if you remain
within 5 feet of the target.
