# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 369/387

37°
modifier. If you have Advantage on Initiative rolls,
increase your Initiative score by 5. If you have Disadvantage on those rolls, decrease that score by 5.
See also chapter 1 ("Combat").
'..,---=-
INVISIBLE [CONDITION]
While you have the Invisible condition, you experience the following effects.
Surprise. If you're Invisible when you roll Initiative, you have Advantage on the roll.
Concealed. You aren't affected by any effect that
requires its target to be seen unless the effect's creator can somehow see you. Any equipment you are
wearing or carrying is also concealed.
Attacks Affected. Attack rolls against you have
Disadvantage, and your attack rolls have Advantage. If a creature can somehow see you, you don't
gain this benefit against that creature.
JUMPING
When you jump, you make either a Long Jump (horizontal) or a High Jump (vertical). See also "Long
Jump" and "High Jump."
------------
KNOCKING OUT A CREATURE
When you would reduce a creature to O Hit Points
with a melee attack, you can instead reduce the
creature to 1 Hit Point. The creature then has the
Unconscious condition and starts a Short Rest.
The creature remains Unconscious until it regains
any Hit Points or until someone uses an action to
administer first aid to it, which requires a successful
DC 10 Wisdom (Medicine) check.
LIGHTLY OBSCURED
You have Disadvantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks to see something in a Lightly Obscured space. See also "Dim Light" and chapter 1
("Exploration").
LINE [AREA OF EFFECT]
A Line is an area of effect that extends from a point
of origin in a straight path along its length and covers an area defined by its width. The effect that creates a Line specifies its length and width.
APPENDIX CI RULES GLOSSARY
A Line's point of origin isn't included in the area
of effect unless its creator decides otherwise.
LONGjUMP
When you make a Long Jump, you leap horizontally
a number of feet up to your Strength score if you
move at least 10 feet immediately before the jump.
When you make a standing Long Jump, you can leap
only half that distance. Either way, each foot you
jump costs a foot of movement.
If you land in Difficult Terrain, you must succeed
on a DC 10 Dexterity (Acrobatics) check or have the
Prone condition.
This Long Jump rule assumes that the height of
the jump doesn't matter, such as a jump across a
stream or chasm. At your DM's option, you must
succeed on a DC 10 Strength (Athletics) check to
clear a low obstacle (no taller than a quarter of the
jump's distance), such as a hedge or low wall. Otherwise, you hit the obstacle.
LONG REST
A Long Rest is a period of extended downtime-at
least 8 hours-available to any creature. During a
Long Rest, you sleep for at least 6 hours and perform no more than 2 hours of light activity, such as
reading, talking, eating, or standing watch.
During sleep, you have the Unconscious condition.
After you finish a Long Rest, you must wait at least
16 hours before starting another one.
Benefits of the Rest. To start a Long Rest, you must
have at least 1 Hit Point. When you finish the rest,
you gain the following benefits:
Regain All HP. You regain all lost Hit Points and all
spent Hit Point Dice. If your Hit Point maximum
was reduced, it returns to normal.
Ability Scores Restored. If any of your ability
scores were reduced, they return to normal.
Exhaustion Reduced. If you have the Exhaustion
condition, its level decreases by 1.
Special Feature. Some features are recharged by a
Long Rest. If you have such a feature, it recharges
in the way specified in its description.
Interrupting the Rest. A Long R12st i • stopped by
the following interruptions:
• Rolling Initiative
• Casting a spell other than a c c1 11, rir
