# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 305/387

on that point become thick and overgrown. A creature moving through that area must spend 4 feet of
movement for every 1 foot it moves. You can exclude
one or more areas of any size within the spell's area
from being affected.
Enrichment. All plants in a half-mile radius centered on a point within range become enriched for
365 days. The plants yield twice the normal amount
of food when harvested. They can benefit from only
one Plant Growth per year.
POISON SPRAY
Necromancy Cantrip (Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock,
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You spray toxic mist at a creature within range.
Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a
hit, the target takes ld12 Poison damage.
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by ld12
when you reach levels 5 (2d12), 11 (3d12), and 17
(4dl2).
-
POLYMORPH
Level 4 Transmutation (Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a caterpillar cocoon)
Duration: Concentration, up to l hour
You attempt to transform a creature that you can
see within range into a Beast. The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or shape-shift into
a Beast form for the duration. That form can be any
Beast you choose that has a Challenge Rating equal
to or less than the target's (or the target's level if
it doesn't have a Challenge Rating). The target's
game statistics are replaced by the stat block of the
chosen Beast, but the target retains its alignment,
personality, creature type, Hit Points, and Hit Point
Dice. See appendix B for a sample of Beast stat
blocks.
The target gains a number of Temporary Hit
Points equal to the Hit Points of the Beast form. The
spell ends early on the target if it has no Temporary
Hit Points left.
The target is limited in the actions it can perform
by the anatomy of its new form, and it can't speak
or cast spells.
The target's gear melds into the new form. The
creature can't use or otherwise benefit from any of
that equipment.
306
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
POWER WORD FORTIFY
Level 7 Enchantment (Bard, C/e1·ic)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Component: V
Duration: Instantaneous
You fortify up to six creatures you can see within
range. The spell bestows 120 Temporary Hit Points,
which you divide among the spell's recipients.
POWER WORD HEAL
Level 9 Enchantment (Bar·d, Cleric)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Component: V
Duration: Instantaneous
A wave of healing energy washes over one creature
you can see within range. The target regains all its
Hit Points. If the creature has the Charmed, Frightened, Paralyzed, Poisoned, or Stunned condition,
the condition ends. If the creature has the Prone
condition, it can use its Reaction to stand up.
POWER WORD KILL
Level 9 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Component: V
Duration: Instantaneous
You compel one creature you can see within range
to die. If the target has 100 Hit Points or fewer, it
dies. Otherwise, it takes 12d12 Psychic damage.
POWER WORD STUN
Level 8 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
You overwhelm the mind of one creature you can
see within range. If the target has 150 Hit Points or
fewer, it has the Stunned condition. Otherwise, its
Speed is O until the start of your next turn.
The Stunned target makes a Constitution saving
throw at the end of each of its t uriis, ending the
condition on itself on a success.
