# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 135/387

mile of each other. A creature can end the telepathic
connection at any time (no action required).
The first time you use this power after each Long
Rest, you don't expend the Psionic Energy Die. All
other times you use the power, you expend the die.
LEVEL 3: PSYCHIC BLADES
You can manifest shimmering blades of psychic energy. Whenever you take the Attack action or make
an Opportunity Attack, you can manifest a Psychic
Blade in your free hand and make the attack with
that blade. The magic blade has the following traits:
Weapon Category: Simple Melee
Damage on a Hit: ld6 Psychic plus the ability modifier
used for the attack roll
Properties: Finesse, Thrown (range 60/120 feet)
Mastery: Vex (you can use this property, and it doesn't
count against the number of properties you can use
with Weapon Mastery)
The blade vanishes immediately after it hits or
misses its target, and it leaves no mark if it deals
damage.
After you attack with the blade on your turn, you
can make a melee or ranged attack with a second
psychic blade as a Bonus Action on the same turn if
your other hand is free to create it. The damage die
of this bonus attack is ld4 instead of ld6.
L EVEL 9: SOUL BLADES
You can now use the following powers with your
Psychic Blades.
Homing Strikes. If you make an attack roll with
your Psychic Blade and miss the target, you can roll
one Psionic Energy Die and add the number rolled
to the attack roll. If this causes the attack to hit, the
Psychic Teleportation. As a Bonus Action. you
manifest a Psychic Blade, expend one Psionic Energy Die and roll it, and throw the blade at a n unoccupied space you can see up to a number of feet
away equal to 10 times the number rolled. You then
teleport to that space, and the blade vanishes.
LEVEL 13: PSYCHIC VEIL
You can weave a veil of psychic static to mask yourself. As a Magic action, you gain the Invisible condition for 1 hour or until you dismiss this effect (no
action required). This invisibility ends early immediately after you deal damage to a creature or you
force a creature to make a saving throw.
Once you use this feature, you can't do so again
until you finish a Long Rest unless you expend a
Psionic Energy Die (no action required) to restore
your use of it.
LEVEL 17: REND MIND
You can sweep your Psychic Blades through a creature's mind. When you use your Psychic Blades to
deal Sneak Attack damage to a creature, you can
force that target to make a Wisdom saving throw
(DC 8 plus your Dexterity modifier and Proficiency
Bonus). If the save fails, the target has the Stunned
condition for 1 minute. The Stunned target repeats
the save at the end of each of its turns, ending the
effect on itself on a success.
Once you use this feature, you can't do so again
until you finish a Long Rest unless you expend three
Psionic Energy Dice (no action required) to restore
your use of it.
