# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 269/387

EVARD'S BLACK TENTACLES
Level 4 Conjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (a tentacle)
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
Squirming, ebony tentacles fill a 20-foot square on
ground that you can see within range. For the duration, these tentacles turn the ground in that area
into Difficult Terrain.
Each creature in that area makes a Strength saving throw. On a failed save, it takes 3d6 Bludgeoning damage, and it has the Restrained condition
until the spell ends. A creature also makes that save
if it enters the area or ends it turn there. A creature
makes that save only once per turn.
A Restrained creature can take an action to make
a Strength (Athletics) check against your spell save
DC, ending the condition on itself on a success.
EXPED!TlOUS RET REAT
Level 1 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You take the Dash action, and until the spell ends,
you can take that action again as a Bonus Action.
270
CH APTER 7 I SPELLS
EYEBITE
Level 6 Necromancy (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
For the duration, your eyes become an inky void.
One creature of your choice within 60 feet of you
that you can see must succeed on a Wisdom saving
throw or be affected by one of the following effects
of your choice for the duration.
On each of your turns until the spell ends, you can
take a Magic action to target another creature but
can't target a creature again if it has succeeded on a
save against this casting of the spell.
Asleep. The target has the Unconscious condition.
It wakes up if it takes any damage or if another
creature takes an action to shake it awake.
Panicked. The target has the Frightened condition.
On each of its turns, the Frightened target must
take the Dash action and move away from you by
the safest and shortest route available. If the target
moves to a space at least 60 feet away from you
where it can't see you, this effect ends.
Sickened. The target has the Poisoned condition.
