# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 263/387

DISPEL MAGIC
Level 3 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger,
Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Choose one creature, object, or magical effect
within range. Any ongoing spell of level 3 or lower
on the target ends. For each ongoing spell of level 4
or higher on the target, make an ability check using your spellcasting ability (DC 10 plus that spell's
level). On a successful check, the spell ends.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You automatically
end a spell on the target if the spell's level is equal to
or less than the level of the spell slot you use.
DISSONANT WHISPERS
Level 1 Enchantment (Bard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
One creature of your choice that you can see within
range hears a discordant melody in its mind. The
i64
CH APTER 7 1 SPELLS
target makes a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed
save, it takes 3d6 Psychic damage and must immediately use its Reaction, if available, to move as far
away from you as it can, using the safest route. On a
successful save, the target takes half as much damage only.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage increases by ld6 for each spell slot level above 1.
DIVINATION
Level 4 Divination (Cleric, Druid, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (incense worth 25+ GP, which
the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
This spell puts you in contact with a god or a god's
servants. You ask one question about a specific
goal, event, or activity to occur within 7 days. The
DM offers a truthful reply, which might be a short
phrase or cryptic rhyme. The ~,nell doesn't account
for circumstances that might change the answer,
such as the casting of other c;pr.:lls.
If you cast the spell more ti 1:>:1 once before finishing a Long Rest, there is :l c:111 1 • • L l.ive 25 percent
chance for each casting aft~•· the fi rst that you get
no answer.
