# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 138/387

z
0 ,. ,.
~
I
1 •
I·
CORE SORCERER TRAITS
Primary Ability
Hit Point Die
Saving Throw
Proficiencies
Skill Proficiencies
Weapon Proficiencies
Armor Training
Starting Equipment
Charisma
D6 per Sorcerer level
Constitution and Charisma
Choose 2: Arcana, Deception,
Insight, Intimidation, Persuasion, or Religion
Simple weapons
None
Choose A or B: (A) Spear,
2 Daggers, Arcane Focus
(crystal), Dungeoneer's Pack,
and 28 GP; or (B) 50 GP
§
/·- ORCERERS WIELD INNATE MAGIC THAT IS
stamped into their being. Some Sorcerers can't
name the origin of their power, while others
trace it to strange events in their personal or family
history. The blessing of a dragon or a dryad at a
baby's birth or the strike of lightning from a clear
sky might spark a Sorcerer's gift. So too might the
gift of a deity, exposure to the strange magic of
another plane of existence, or a glimpse into the
inner workings of reality. Whatever the origin,
the result is an indelible mark on the Sorcerer, a
churning magic that can be passed down through
generations.
Sorcerers don't learn magic; the raw, roiling
power of magic is part of them. The essential art of
a Sorcerer is learning to harness and channel that
innate magic, allowing the Sorcerer to discover new
and staggering ways to unleash their power. As Sorcerers master their innate magic, they grow more
attuned to its origin, developing distinct powers
that reflect its source.
Sorcerers are rare. Some family lines produce
exactly one Sorcerer in every generation, but most
of the time, the talents of sorcery appear as a fluke.
People who have this magical power soon discover
that it doesn't like to stay quiet. A Sorcerer's magic
wants to be wielded.
--
- ---·
- --- __ \.._ -· - ---
BECOMING A SORCERER ...
As A LEVEL 1 CHARACTER
• Gain all the traits in the Core Sorcerer Traits
table.
• Gain the Sorcerer's level 1 features, which are
listed in the Sorcerer Features table.
As A MULTICLASS CHARACTER
• Gain the Hit Point Die from the Core Sorcerer
Traits table.
• Gain the Sorcerer's level 1 features, which are
listed in the Sorcerer Features table. See the multiclassing rules in chapter 2 to determine your
available spell slots.
SORCERER CLASS FEATURES
As a Sorcerer, you gain the following class features
when you reach the specified Sorcerer levels. These
features are listed in the Sorcerer Features table.
LEVEL 1: SPELLCASTING
Drawing from your innate magic, you can cast
spells. See chapter 7 for the rules on spellcasting.
The information below details how you use those
rules with Sorcerer spells, which appear in the Sorcerer spell list later in the class's description.
Cantrips. You know four Sorcerer cantrips of
your choice. Light, Prestidigitation, Shocking Grasp,
and Sorcerous Burst are recommended. Whenever
you gain a Sorcerer level, you can replace one of
your cantrips from this feature with another Sorcerer cant rip of your choice.
When you reach Sorcerer levels 4 and 10, you
learn another Sorcerer can trip of your choice, as
shown in the Cantrips column of the Sorcerer Features table.
Spell Slots. The Sorcerer Features table shows
how many spell slots you have to cast your level 1+
spells. You regain all expended slots when you finish
a Long Rest.
Prepared Spells of Level 1+. You prepare the list
of level 1+ spells that are available for you to cast
with this feature. To start, choose two level 1 Sorcerer spells. Burning Hands and Detect Magic are
recommended.
The number of spells on your list increases as
you gain Sorcerer levels, as shown in the Prepared
Spells column of the Sorcerer Features table.
Whenever that number increases, choose additional
r, 1 1
A n rrr• fl
':!
I ,-. , , . n.. -~ •-- ....
-
•
• ,,,.. r""' ....,
