# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 130/387

With drnw (Cost: 1d6). Immediately after the attack, you move up to half your Speed without provoking Opportunity Attacks.
LEVEL 5: UNCANNY DODGE
When an attacker that you can see hits you with an
attack roll, you can take a Reaction to halve the attack's damage against you (round down).
LEVEL 7: EVASION
You can nimbly dodge out of the way of certain
dangers. When you're subjected to an effect that
allows you to make a Dexterity saving throw to take
only half damage, you instead take no damage if
you succeed on the saving throw and only half damage if you fail. You can't use this feature if you have
the Incapacitated condition.
LEVEL 7: RELIABLE TALENT
Whenever you make an ability check that uses one
of your skill or tool proficiencies, you can treat a
d20 roll of 9 or lower as a 10.
LEVEL 11: IMPROVED CUNNING STRIKE
You can use up to two Cunning Strike effects when
you deal Sneak Attack damage, paying the die cost
for each effect.
LEVEL 14: DEVIOUS STRIKES
You've practiced new ways to use your Sneak Attack deviously. The following effects are now among
your Cunning Strike options.
Daze (Cost: 2d6). The target must succeed on a
Constitution saving throw, or on its next turn, it
can do only one of the following: move or take an
action or a Bonus Action.
Knock Out (Cost: 6d6). The target must succeed on
a Constitution saving throw, or it has the Unconscious condition for 1 minute or until it takes any
damage. The Unconscious target repeats the save
at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on
itself on a success.
Obscure (Cost: 3d6). The target must succeed on a
Dexterity saving throw, or it has the Blinded condition until the end of its next turn.
LEVEL 15: SLIPPERY MIND
Your cunning mind is exceptionally difficult to control. You gain proficiency in Wisdom and Charisma
saving throws.
LEVEL 18: ELUSIVE
You're so evasive that attackers rarely gain the
upper hand against you. No attack roll can have
Advantage against you unless you have the Incapacitated condition.
LEVEL 19: EPIC BOON
You gain an Epic Boon feat (see chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which you qualify.
Boon of the Night Spirit is recommended.
LEVEL 20: STROKE OF LUCK
You have a marvelous knack for succeeding when
you need to. If you fail a D20 Test, you can turn the
roll into a 20.
Once you use this feature, you can't use it again
until you finish a Short or Long Rest.
