# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 339/387

WARDING BOND
Level 2 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
_
Components: V, S, M (a pair of platinum rmgs worth
50+ GP each, which you and the target must wear
for the duration)
Duration: 1 hour
You touch another creature that is willing and
create a mystic connection between you and the
target until the spell ends. While the target is
within 60 feet of you, it gains a +1 bonus to AC and
saving throws, and it has Resistance to all damage.
Also, each time it takes damage, you take the same
amount of damage.
The spell ends if you drop to O Hit Points or if you
and the target become separated by more than 60
feet. It also ends if the spell is cast again on either of
the connected creatures.
WATER BREATHING
Level 3 Transmutation (Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer,
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a short reed)
Duration: 24 hours
This spell grants up to ten willing creatures of your
choice within range the ability to breathe underwater until the spell ends. Affected creatures also
retain their normal mode of respiration.
WATER WALK
Level 3 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a piece of cork)
Duration: 1 hour
This spell grants the ability to move across any liquid surface-such as water, acid, mud, snow, quicksand, or lava- as if it were harmless solid ground
(creatures crossing molten lava can still take damage from the heat). Up to ten willing creatures of
your choice within range gain this ability for the
duration.
An affected target must take a Bonus Action to
pass from the liquid's surface into the liquid itself
and vice versa, but if the target falls into the liquid,
the target passes through the surface into the liquid
below.
140
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
WEB
Level 2 Conjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bit of spiderweb)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You conjure a mass of sticky webbing at a point
within range. The webs fill a 20-foot Cube there for
the duration. The webs are Difficult Terrain, and the
area within them is Lightly Obscured.
If the webs aren't anchored between two solid
masses (such as walls or trees) or layered across a
floor, wall, or ceiling, the web collapses on itself, and
the spell ends at the start of your next turn. Webs
layered over a flat surface have a depth of S feet.
The first time a creature enters the webs on a turn
or starts its turn there, it must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or have the Restrained condition
while in the webs or until it breaks free.
A creature Restrained by the webs can take an
action to make a Strength (Athletics) check against
your spell save DC. If it succeeds, it is no longer
Restrained.
The webs are flammable. Any 5-foot Cube of webs
exposed to fire burns away in J round, dealing 2d4
Fire damage to any creature t hat starts its turn in
the fire.
