# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 162/387

The telep,ilhic con nection lasts for a number of
minutes equal to your Wa rlock level. It ends early
if you use this feature to connect with a different
creature.
LEVEL 3: GREAT OLD ONE SPELLS
The magic of your patron ensures you always have
certain spells ready; when you reach a Warlock
level specified in the Great Old One Spells table, you
thereafter always have the listed spells prepared.
GREAT OLD ONE SPELLS
Warlock Level
Spells
3
Detect Thoughts, Dissonant Whispers, Phantasmal Force, Tasha's
Hideous Laughter
5
Clairvoyance, Hunger of Hadar
7
Confusion, Summon Aberration
9
Modify Memory, Telekinesis
LEVEL 3: PSYCHIC SPELLS
When you cast a Warlock spell that deals damage,
you can change its damage type to Psychic. In
addition, when you cast a Warlock spell that is an
Enchantment or Illusion, you can do so without
Verbal or Somatic components.
LEVEL 6: CLAIRVOYANT COMBATANT
When you form a telepathic bond with a creature
using your Awakened Mind, you can force that
creature to make a Wisdom saving throw against
your spell save DC. On a failed save, the creature
has Disadvantage on attack rolls against you, and
you have Advantage on attack rolls against that
creature for the duration of the bond.
Once you use this feature, you can't use it again
until you finish a Short or Long Rest unless you expend a Pact Magic spell slot (no action required) to
restore your use of it.
LEVEL 10: ELDRITCH HEX
Your alien patron grants you a powerful curse. You
always have the Hex spell prepared. When you cast
Hex and choose an ability, the target also has Disadvantage on saving throws of the chosen ability for
the duration of the spell.
LEVEL 10: THOUGHT SHIELD
Your thoughts can't be read by telepathy or other
means unless you allow it. You also have Resistance
to Psychic damage, and whenever a creature deals
Psychic damage to you, that creature takes the
same amount of damage that you take.
LEVEL 14: CREATE ThRALL
~hen yo~ cast S~mmon_Aberration, you can modify
tt so that 1t doesn t require Concentration. If you do
so, the spell's duration becomes 1 minute for that
casting, and when summoned, the Aberration has a
number of Temporary Hit Points equal to your Warlock level plus your Charisma modifier.
In addition, the first time each turn the Aberration hit~ a creature under the effect of your Hex, the
Aberration deals extra Psychic damage to the target
equal to the bonus damage of that spell.
