# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 35/387

A BALANCED PARTY
The classic D&D party comprises a Cleric,
Fighter, Rogue, and Wizard. Those four classes
have the longest history in the game, but more
importantly, they bring a balanced mix of capabilities to adventures. You're welcome to use that
party setup or modify it using these guidelines:
Cleric. Replace with Bard or Druid
Fighter. Replace with Barbarian, Monk, Paladin,
or Ranger
Rogue. Replace with Bard or Ranger
Wizard. Replace with Bard, Sorcerer, or Warlock
WRITE YOUR LEVEL
Write your character's level on your character
sheet. Typically, a character starts at level 1 and
advances in level by adventuring and gaining Experience Points (XP).
Write Your XP. Also record your Experience
Points. A level 1 character has O XP.
Starting at a Higher Level. Your DM might start
you at a higher level. If you start at level 3 or higher,
write your chosen subclass on your character sheet.
See the "Starting at Higher Levels" section later in
the chapter for more information.
NOTE ARMOR TRAINING
Your class might give you training with certain
categories of armor. Note your armor training on
your character sheet. Armor training with a kind of
armor means you can wear that armor effectively,
gaining defensive bonuses from it. The categories of
armor are described in chapter 6.
HOLD THAT THOUGHT
You'll fill in more details about your class later.
Choosing your class is the most important decision
you make in creating a character, and it informs
many of the decisions you make in later steps. You'll
return to your class's description in chapter 3 several more times before you're done.
STEP 2: DETERMINE ORIGIN
Determining your character's origin involves choosing a background, a species, and two languages.
A character's background represents the place
and occupation that were most formative for the
character. The combination of background, species,
and languages provides fertile soil for your imagination as you ponder your character's earliest days.
CHOOSE A BACKGROUND
Choose your character's background, and write it
on your character sheet. You can choose any of the
backgrounds detailed in chapter 4, and your OM
might offer additional backgrounds as options.
36
CH A PTER 2 j CREATING A CHARACTER
The background you choose influences step 3,
when you determine your character's ability scores.
If you're having trouble choosing, the Abi lity Scores
and Backgrounds table shows which backg1·ounds
benefit which ability scores. Look for your class's
primary ability there.
ABILITY SCORES AND BACKGROUNDS
Ability
Backgrounds
Strength
Dexterity
Artisan, Entertainer, Fa rmer, Guard,
Noble, Sailor, Soldier
Artisan, Charlatan , Crim inal ,
Entertainer, Guide, Sailor, Scribe,
Soldier, Wayfarer
Constitution Charlatan, Criminal, Farmer, Guide,
Hermit , Merchant, Sage, Soldier
Intelligence
Acolyte, Artisan , Crim inal, Guard,
Merchant, Noble, Sage, Scribe
Wisdom
Charisma
Acolyte, Farmer, Guard, Guide,
Hermit, Sage, Sailor, Scribe, Wayfarer
Acolyte, Charlatan, Entertainer,
Hermit, Merchant, Noble, Wayfarer
Record Your Feat. A background gives you a feat,
which grants your character particular capabilities.
Feats are detailed in chapter 5. Write the feat on
your character sheet.
Note Proficiencies. Your background gives proficiency in two skills and with one tool. Record this
information on your character sheet.
Your class also gives proficiencies. Check your
class description in chapter 3 and note the proficiencies on your character sheet.
On the sample character sheet, you can indicate
proficiency in skills and saving throws by marking
the circle next to them.
The features table in your class description shows
your Proficiency Bonus (described in chapter 1),
which is +2 for a level 1 character. Note this number
on your character sheet. You'll fill in other numbers
connected to these proficiencies in step 5.
CHOOSE STARTI NG EQU IPMENT
Your background and class both provide starting
equipment. Any coins that you gain at this step can
be immediately spent on equipment from chapter 6.
In addition, you can have one trinket at no cost (see
the Trinkets table at the end of this chapter).
Record your chosen equipment on your character
sheet. Equipment is described in chapter 6, but for
now you can just write it all down and look up the
specifics in that chapter later. There's also space on
the sample character sheet to note any coins you
have left after purchasing your equipment, as well
as treasure you acquire on your adventures.
