# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 54/387

PATH O F ·.,_. ·· ,~ V{ I LD HEART
Walk in Community with the Animal World
Barbarians who follow the Path of the Wild Heart
view themselves as kin to animals. These Barbarians learn magical means to communicate with animals, and their Rage heightens their connection to
animals as it fills them with supernatural might.
LEVEL 3: ANIMAL SPEAKER
You can cast the Beast Sense and Speak with Animals
spells but only as Rituals. Wisdom is your spellcasting ability for them.
LEVEL 3: RAGE OF THE WILDS
Your Rage taps into the primal power of animals.
Whenever you activate your Rage, you gain one of
the following options of your choice.
Bear. While your Rage is active, you have Resistance to every damage type except Force, Necrotic,
Psychic, and Radiant.
Eagle. When you activate your Rage, you can take
the Disengage and Dash actions as part of that Bonus Action. While your Rage is active, you can take
a Bonus Action to take both of those actions.
Wolf. While your Rage is active, your allies have
Advantage on attack rolls against any enemy of
yours within 5 feet of you.
LEVEL 6: ASPECT OF THE WILDS
You gain one of the following options of your
choice. Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can
change your choice.
Owl. You have Darkvision with a range of 60 feet.
If you already have Darkvision, its range increases
by 60 feet.
Panther. You have a Climb Speed equal to your
Speed.
Salmon. You have a Swim Speed equal to your
Speed.
LEVEL 10: NATURE SPEAKER
You can cast the Commune with Nature spell but
only as a Ritual. Wisdom is your spellcasting ability
for it.
LEVEL 14: POWER OF THE WILDS
Whenever you activate your Rage, you gain one of
the following options of your choice.
Falcon. While your Rage is active, you have a Fly
Speed equal to your Speed if you aren't wearing any
armor.
Lion. While your Rage is active, any of your enemies within 5 feet of you have Disadvantage on attack rolls against targets other than you or another
Barbarian who has this option active.
Ram. While your Rage is active, you can cause a
Large or smaller creature to have the Prone condition when you hit it with a melee attack.
