# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 209/387

THROWN WEAPON FIGHTING
Fighting Style Feat (Prerequisite: Fighting Style Feature)
When you hit with a ranged attack roll using a
weapon that has the Thrown property, you gain a
+2 bonus to the damage roll.
Two-WEAPON FIGHTING
Fighting Style Feat (Prerequisite: Fighting Style Feature)
When you make an extra attack as a result of using
a weapon that has the Light property, you can add
your ability modifier to the damage of that attack if
you aren't already adding it to the damage.
----
.--
UNARMED FIGHTING
Fighting Style Feat (Prerequisite: Fighting Style Feature)
When you hit with your Unarmed Strike and deal
damage, you can deal Bludgeoning damage equal
to 1d6 plus your Strength modifier instead of the
normal damage of an Unarmed Strike. If you aren't
holding any weapons or a Shield when you make the
attack roll, the d6 becomes a d8.
At the start of each of your turns, you can deal
ld4 Bludgeoning damage to one creature Grappled by you.
EPIC BOON FEATS
These feats are in the Epic Boon category.
--- ---- -- -
BOON OF COMBAT PROWESS
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level 19+)
You gain the following benefits.
-
Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of
your choice by 1, to a maximum of 30.
Peerless Aim. When you miss with an attack roll,
you can hit instead. Once you use this benefit, you
can't use it again until the start of your next turn.
--- - -- --
--
--.,----
BOON OF DIMENSIONAL TRAVEL
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level 19+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of
your choice by 1, to a maximum of 30.
Blink Steps. Immediately after you take the Attack
action or the Magic action, you can teleport up to
30 feet to an unoccupied space you can see.
2JO
CB APTER 5 I FEATS
BOON OF ENERGY RESIST A N C E
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level 19+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase one abil ity score of
your choice by 1, to a maximum of 30.
Energy Resistances. You gain Resistance to two
of the following damage types of your choice: Acid
Cold, Fire, Lightning, Necrotic, Poison, Psychic,
'
Radiant, or Thunder. Whenever you finish a Long
Rest, you can change your choices.
Energy Redirection. When you take damage of
one of the types chosen for the Energy Resistances
benefit, you can take a Reaction to direct damage
of the same type toward another creature you can
see within 60 feet of yourself that isn't behind Total
Cover. If you do so, that creature must succeed on
a Dexterity saving throw (DC 8 plus your Constitution modifier and Proficiency Bonus) or take damage equal to 2d12 plus your Constitution modifier.
'
-·
BOON OF FATE
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level 19+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of
your choice by 1, to a maximum of 30.
Improve Fate. When you or another creature
within 60 feet of you succeeds on or fails a D20
Test, you can roll 2d4 and apply the total rolled as a
bonus or penalty to the d20 roll. Once you use this
benefit, you can't use it again until you roll Initiative
or finish a Short or Long Res~.
BOON OF FORTITUDE
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level 19+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of
your choice by 1, to a maximum of 30.
Fortified Health. Your Hit Point maximum increases by 40. In addition, whenever you regain Hit
Points, you can regain additional Hit Points equal to
your Constitution modifier. Once you've regained
these additional Hit Points, you can't do so again
until the start of your next turn.
