# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 232/387

WEARI N C: A~D ~Vr r~LDING ITEMS
Using a magic item's properties might mean wearing
or wielding it. A magic item meant to be worn must
be donned in the intended fashion: boots go on feet,
gloves on hands, hats and helmets on a head, and
rings on a finger. Magic armor must be donned, a
Shield strapped to the arm, a cloak fastened about
the shoulders. A weapon must be held.
In most cases, a magic item that's meant to be
worn can fit a creature regardless of size or build.
Magic garments are made to be easily adjustable, or
they magically adjust themselves to the wearer.
MULTIPLE ITEMS OF THE SAME KIND
You can't wear more than one of certain magic
items. You can't normally wear more than one pair
of footwear, one pair of gloves or gauntlets, one pair
of bracers, one suit of armor, one item of headwear,
or one cloak. The OM might make exceptions.
PAIRED ITEMS
Items that come in pairs- such as boots, bracers,
gauntlets, and gloves-impart their benefits only
if both items of the pair are worn. For example, a
character wearing a Boot of Striding and Springing
on one foot and a Boot of Elvenkind on the other foot
gains no benefit from either.
CRAFTING EQUIPMENT
Using the rules below, characters can make nonmagical items, Potions of Healing, and Spell Scrolls.
CRA FTING NONMAGICAL ITEMS
To craft a nonmagical item, you need tools, raw materials, and time, each of which is detailed below. If
you meet the requirements, you make the item, and
you can use it or sell it at its normal price.
T OOLS
This chapter's "Tools" section lists which tools are
required to make certain items. The OM assigns required tools for items not listed there.
You must use the required tool to make an item
and have proficiency with that tool. Anyone who
helps you must also have proficiency with it.
RAW MATERIALS
To make an item, you need raw materials worth
half its purchase cost (round down). For example,
you need 750 GP of raw materials to make Plate Armor, which sells for 1,500 GP. The OM determines
whether appropriate raw materials are available.
TIME
To determine how many days (working 8 hours a
day) it takes to make an item, divide its purchase
cost in GP by 10 (round a fraction up to a day). For
example, you need 5 days to make a Heavy Crossbow, which sells for SO GP.
If an item requires multiple days, the days needn't
be consecutive.
Characters can combine their efforts to shorten
the crafting time. Divide the time needed to create
an item by the number of characters working on it.
Normally, only one other character can assist you,
but the DM might allow more assistants.
BREWING POTIONS OF HEALING
A character who has proficiency with the Herbalism
Kit can create a Potion of Healing. Doing so requires
using that kit and 25 GP of raw material over the
course of 1 day (8 hours of work).
SCRIBING SPELL SCROLLS
A spellcaster can transfer a spell to a scroll and create a Spell Scroll, using the rules below.
TIME AND COST
Scribing a scroll takes an amount of time and
money based on the level of the spell, as shown in
the Spell Scroll Costs table. For each day of inscription, you must work for 8 hours. If a scroll requires
multiple days, those days needn't be consecutive.
PREREQUISITES FOR THE SCRIBE
To scribe a scroll, you must have proficiency in the
Arcana skill or with Calligrapher's Tools and have
the spell prepared on each day of the inscription.
You must also have at hand any Material components required by the spell; if the spell consumes
its Material components, they are consumed only
when you complete the scroll. The scroll's spell uses
your spell save DC and spell attack bonus.
CANTRIPS
If the scribed spell is a cantrip, the version on the
scroll works as if the caster were your level.
SPELL SCROLL COSTS
Spell Level
Time
Cost
Cantrip
l day
15 GP
l
l day
25 GP
2
3 days
lOOGP
3
S days
150 GP
4
10 days
1,000 GP
s
25 days
1,500 GP
6
40 days
10,000 GP
7
SO days
12,500 GP
8
60 days
15,000 GP
9
120 days
50,000 GP
CHAPT ER 6 I EQUIPMENT
233
