# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 239/387

ANIMAL MESSENGER
Level 2 Enchantment (Bard, Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a morsel of food)
Duration: 24 hours
A Tiny Beast of your choice that you can see within
range must succeed on a Charisma saving throw, or
it attempts to deliver a message for you (if the target's Challenge Rating isn't 0, it automatically succeeds). You specify a location you have visited and a
recipient who matches a general description, such as
"a person dressed in the uniform of the town guard"
or "a red-haired dwarf wearing a pointed hat." You
also communicate a message of up to twenty-five
words. The Beast travels for the duration toward
the specified location, covering about 25 miles per
24 hours or 50 miles if the Beast can fly.
When the Beast arrives, it delivers your message
to the creature that you described, mimicking your
communication. If the Beast doesn't reach its destination before the spell ends, the message is lost, and
the Beast returns to where you cast the spell.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The spell's duration increases by 48 hours for each spell slot level
above 2.
ANIMAL SHAPES
Level 8 Transmutation (Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 24 hours
Choose any number of willing creatures that you
can see within range. Each target shape-shifts into
a Large or smaller Beast of your choice that has a
Challenge Rating of 4 or lower. You can choose a
different form for each target. On later turns, you
can take a Magic action to transform the targets
again.
A target's game statistics are replaced by the
chosen Beast's statistics, but the target retains its
creature type; Hit Points; Hit Point Dice; alignment;
ability to communicate; and Intelligence, Wisdom,
and Charisma scores. The target's actions are limited by the Beast form's anatomy, and it can't cast
spells. The target's equipment melds into the new
form, and the target can't use any of that equipment
while in that form.
The target gains a number of Temporary Hit
Points equal to the Beast form's Hit Points. The
transformation lasts for the duration for each target, until the target has no Temporary Hit Points, or
until the target leaves the form as a Bonus Action.
240
CHAPTER 7 I SP ELLS
ANIMATE DEAD
Level 3 Necrnmancy (Cleric, Wizard)
Casting Time: l minute
Range: l O feet
Components: V, S, M (a drop of blood, a piece of
flesh, and a pinch of bone dust)
Duration: Instantaneous
Choose a pile of bones or a corpse of a Medium or
Small Humanoid within range. The target becomes
an Undead creature: a Skeleton if you chose bones
or a Zombie if you chose a corpse (see appendix B
for the stat blocks).
On each of your turns, you can take a Bonus
Action to mentally command any creature you
made with this spell if the creature is within 60
feet of you (if you control multiple creatures, you
can command any of them at the same time, issuing the same command to each one). You decide
what action the creature will take and where it will
move on its next turn, or you can issue a general
command, such as to guard a chamber or corridor.
If you issue no commands, the creature takes the
Dodge action and moves only to avoid harm. Once
given an order, the creature continues to follow it
until its task is complete.
The creature is under your control for 24 hours,
after which it stops obeying any command you've
given it. To maintain control of the creature for another 24 hours, you must cast this spell on the creature again before the current 24-hour period ends.
This use of the spell reasserts your control over up
to four creatures you have animated with this spell
rather than animating a new creature.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You animate or
reassert control over two additional Undead creatures for each spell slot level above 3. Each of the
creatures must come from a different corpse or pile
of bones.
ANIMATE OBJECTS
Level 5 Transmutation (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
Objects animate at your command. Choose a number of nonmagical objects within range that aren't
being worn or carried, aren't fixed to a surface, and
aren't Gargantuan. The maximum number of objects is equal to your spellcasti.ng ::ibility modifier;
for this number, a Medium o • ma Her target counts
as one object, a Large target cou ,t., as two, and a
Huge target counts as three.
