# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 141/387

EMPOWERED SPELL
Cost 1 Sorcery Point
When you roll damage for a spell, you can spend 1
Sorcery Point to reroll a number of the damage dice
up to your Charisma modifier (minimum of one),
and you must use the new rolls.
You can use Empowered Spell even if you've already used a different Metamagic option during the
casting of the spell.
EXT ENDED SPELL
Cost: 1 Sorcery Point
When you cast a spell that has a duration of 1 minute or longer, you can spend 1 Sorcery Point to double its duration to a maximum duration of 24 hours.
If the affected spell requires Concentration, you
have Advantage on any saving throw you make to
maintain that Concentration.
142
C HAPT ER 3 I C H ARACTE R CLASS ES
HEIGHTENED SPELL
Cost: 2 Sorcery Points
When you cast a spell that forces a creature to
make a saving throw, you can spend 2 Sorcery
Points to give one target of the spell Disadvantage
on saves against the spell.
QUICKENED SPELL
Cost: 2 Sorcery Points
When you cast a spell that has a casting time of an
action, you can spend 2 Sorcery Points to change
the casting time to a Bonus Action for this casting.
You can't modify a spell in this way if you've already
cast a level 1+ spell on the current turn, nor can you
cast a level 1+ spell on this turn after modifying a
spell in this way.
SEEKING SPELL
Cost: 1 Sorcery Point
If you make an attack roll for a spell and miss, you
can spend 1 Sorcery Point to reroll the d20, and you
must use the new roll.
You can use Seeking Spell even if you've already
used a different Metamagic option during the casting of the spell.
SUBTLE SPELL
Cost: 1 Sorcery Point
When you cast a spell, you can spend 1 Sorcery
Point to cast it without any Verbal, Somatic, or Material components, except Material components that
are consumed by the spell or that have a cost specified in the spell.
TRAN SMUTED SPELL
Cost: 1 Sorcery Point
When you cast a spell that deals a type of damage
from the following list, you can spend 1 Sorcery
Point to change that damage type to one of the
other listed types: Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, Poison, Thunder.
TWINNED SPELL
Cost: 1 Sorcery Point
When you cast a spell, such as Charm Person, that
can be cast with a higher-level spell slot to target an
additional creature, you can spend 1 Sorcery Point
to increase the spell's effective level by 1.
SORCERER SPELL L IST
This section presents the Sorcerer spell list. The
spells are organized by spell level and then alphabetized, and each spell's school of magic is listed.
In the Special column, C means the spell requires
Concentration, R means it's a Ritual, a <l M means it
requires a specific Material compon<::11 .
