# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 4/387

Dice. You need a set of polyhedral dice (shown in
chapter 1). You can find dice like these in game
sto1·es and from online retailers. Dice-rolling apps
are also available.
Character Sheet. To keep track of important information about your character, you need a character sheet, which can be as simple as a piece of
paper you write notes on or as feature-rich as a
digital record.
The DM might also find these accessories useful:
DM Screen. Many DMs like to use a screen to
shield their notes and dice rolls from players. It's
bad manners to peek over the screen!
Miniatures and Battle Grid. Some DMs use a battle grid and miniatures to run combat encounters,
since they help everyone visualize the action. A
battle grid can be anything marked out in 1-inch
squares, from disposable sheets of paper to poster
maps. And miniatures range from simple tokens
to detailed figurines. Online maps and miniatures
are also available, including on DnDBeyond.com.
USING THIS BOOK
Here's what you'll find in this book:
Chapter 1: Playing the Game. The first chapter explains the fundamentals of the game, with examples to help you understand how to play.
Chapter 2: Creating a Character. Chapter 2 walks
you through the steps of character creation.
Chapter 3: Character Classes. Characters' capabilities are largely determined by class, such as
Fighter or Wizard. Chapter 3 offers twelve classes
to choose from, along with forty-eight subclasses.
Chapter 4: Character Origins. Background and
species are key elements in defining a character's
origin, which further shapes the character's abilities beyond the choice of class. Background and
species options are presented in chapter 4.
Chapter 5: Feats. The feats in chapter 5 are special
features that characters gain as part of their background and class.
Chapter 6: Equipment. Armor, weapons, and adventuring gear are found in chapter 6.
Chapter 7: Spells. This chapter contains descriptions of the spells that spellcasters can cast.
Appendix A: The Multiverse. Here you'll find an
overview of the magical multiverse where D&D
adventures take place.
Appendix B: Creature Stat Blocks. This appendix
brims with game information for creatures that
certain characters can befriend or transform into.
Appendix C: Rules Glossary. The game's main
rules terminology is summarized in this appendix,
making it an invaluable reference during play.
WHAT'S NEW IN THE 2024 VERSION?
This is the 2024 version of the fifth edition Player's Handbook. If you've read the 2014 version,
much of this book will feel familiar, since the fundamental rules of the game are the same. But the
book contains many new or redesigned elements,
and the versions of things in this book replace
versions from older books. Here are highlights:
Streamlined Rules. The game's rules have been
streamlined and are now supported by a rules
glossary.
Easier Character Creation. Using chapter 2, making a character is easier than ever before.
Enhanced Classes. In chapter 3, every class and
subclass has been enhanced with new options.
Reimagined Origins. Explored in chapter 4, a
character's origin is now defined by background and species, each of which has been
redesigned.
Expanded Feats. In chapter 5, feats have been redesigned, with many feats added.
Upgraded Weapons, Tools, and Crafting. Mastery
properties transform how weapon wielders use
their weapons, and every character can enjoy
new tool and crafting rules in chapter 6.
Dazzling Spells. Chapter 7 bursts with new spells
and old ones that have been enhanced.
If you can't find a rule, check the index. If a rule's
name has changed from what was printed in the
2014 Player's Handbook, the index points you to
the new name. For example, if you look up Inspiration in the index, it points you to the rules for
Heroic Inspiration in the rules glossary.
WORLDS OF ADVENTURE
The worlds of D&D glimmer with magic, monsters,
and spectacular adventure. Launching from a foundation of medieval fantasy, these worlds soar with
possibilities beyond those of our reality.
D&D worlds exist in a multiverse and are connected to one another and to other planes of existence. Some of the worlds have been published
as official D&D settings, including the Greyhawk,
Forgotten Realms, Dragonlance, Spelljammer,
Planescape, Dark Sun, Eberron, and Ravenloft settings. Alongside these worlds are thousands more,
created by generations of D&D players for their own
games. Amid the richness of the multiverse, you
might create a world of your own.
The worlds of the multiverse share characteristics, but each world is set apart by its own history
and geography. Your OM might set a campaign on
one of these worlds or on a world of their own invention. Because there is so much variety among
D&D worlds, check with your DM about the world
of your upcoming adventures.
INTRODUCTION I WELCOME TO ADVENTURE
5
