# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 371/387

PASSIVE PERCEPTION
Passive Perception is a score that reflects a creature's general awareness of its surroundings. The
DM uses this score when determining whether a
creature notices something without consciously
making a Wisdom (Perception) check.
A creature's Passive Perception equals 10 plus the
creature's Wisdom (Perception) check bonus. If the
creature has Advantage on such checks, increase
the score by 5. If the creature has Disadvantage on
them, decrease the score by 5. For example, a level
1 character with a Wisdom of 15 and proficiency
in Perception has a Passive Perception of 14 (10 +
2 + 2). If that character has Advantage on Wisdom
(Perception) checks, the score becomes 19.
- - ------ - --- ---- v---
PER DAY
If a rule says you can use something a certain number of times per day, that means you must finish a
Long Rest to use it again after you run out of uses.
PETRIFIED [CONDITION]
While you have the Petrified condition, you experience the following effects.
Turned to Inanimate Substance. You are transformed, along with any nonmagical objects you are
wearing and carrying, into a solid inanimate substance (usually stone). Your weight increases by a
factor of ten, and you cease aging.
Incapacitated. You have the Incapacitated
condition.
Speed 0. Your Speed is O and can't increase.
Attacks Affected. Attack rolls against you have
Advantage.
Saving Throws Affected. You automatically fail
Strength and Dexterity saving throws.
Resist Damage. You have Resistance to all damage.
Poison Immunity. You have Immunity to the Poisoned condition.
--------
PLAYER CHARACTER
A player character is a character controlled by a
player. See also chapter 2.
POISONED [CON DITION]
While you have the Poisoned condition, you experience the following effect.
Ability Checks and Attacks Affected. You have Disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks.
37~
APPE NDIX C I RULES GLOSSARY
POSSESSION
Some effects cause a creature to be possessed by another creature or entity. A possessing effect defines
how the possession operates. Possession can be prevented by the Protection from Evil and Good spell and
ended by the Dispel Evil and Good spell.
PROFICIENCY
If you have proficiency with something, you can add
your Proficiency Bonus to any D20 Test you make
using that thing. A creature might have proficiency
in a skill or saving throw or with a weapon or tool.
See also chapter 1 ("Proficiency").
!, --
PRONE [CONDITION]
While you have the Prone condition, you experience the following effects.
Restricted Movement. Your only movement options are to crawl or to spend an amount of movement equal to half your Speed (round down) to
right yourself and thereby end the condition. If your
Speed is 0, you can't right yourself.
Attacks Affected. You have Disadvantage on attack
rolls. An attack roll against you has Advantage if
the attacker is within 5 feet of you. Otherwise, that
attack roll has Disadvantage.
REACTION
A Reaction is a special action taken in response to
a trigger defined in the Reaction's description. You
can take a Reaction on another creature's turn, and
if you take it on your turn, you can do so even if you
also take an action, a Bonus Action, or both. Once
you take a Reaction, you can't take another one until the start of your next turn. The Opportunity Attack is a Reaction available to all creatures. See also
"Opportunity Attacks" and chapter 1 ("Actions").
READY [ACTION]
You take the Ready action to wait for a particular
circumstance before you act. To do so, you take this
action on your turn, which lets you act by taking a
Reaction before the start of your next turn.
First, you decide what perceivable circumstance
will trigger your Reaction. Then, you choose the
action you will take in response to that trigger, or
you choose to move up to your Speed in response
to it. Examples include "If the cultist steps on the
trapdoor, I'll pull the lever that opens it," and "If the
zombie steps next to me, J move aw~y."
