# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 52/387

L EVE L I.~ : ADi .UTY SCORE IMPROVEMENT
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see
chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which
you qualify. You gain this feature again at Barbarian
levels 8, 12, and 16.
L EVEL 5: EXTRA ATTACK
You can attack twice instead of once whenever you
take the Attack action on your turn.
LEVEL 5: FAST MOVEMENT
Your speed increases by 10 feet while you aren't
wearing Heavy armor.
LEVEL 7: F ERAL INSTI NCT
Your instincts are so honed that you have Advantage on Initiative rolls.
LEVEL 7: INSTINCTIVE POUNCE
As part of the Bonus Action you take to enter your
Rage, you can move up to half your Speed.
LEVEL 9 : BRUTAL STRI KE
If you use Reck.less Attack, you can forgo any Advantage on one Strength-based attack roll of your
choice on your turn. The chosen attack roll mustn't
have Disadvantage. If the chosen attack roll hits, the
target takes an extra ldlO damage of the same type
dealt by the weapon or Unarmed Strike, and you
can cause one Brutal Strike effect of your choice.
You have the following effect options.
Forceful Blow. The target is pushed 15 feet straight
away from you. You can then move up to half your
Speed straight toward the target without provoking
Opportunity Attacks.
Hamstring Blow. The target's Speed is reduced by
15 feet until the start of your next turn. A target can
be affected by only one Hamstring Blow at a timethe most recent one.
LEVEL 11: RELENTLESS RAGE
Your Rage can keep you fighting despite grievous
wounds. If you drop to O Hit Points while your Rage
is active and don't die outright, you can make a DC
10 Constitution saving throw. If you succeed, your
Hit Points instead change to a number equal to
twice your Barbarian level.
Each time you use this feature after the first, the
DC increases by 5. When you finish a Short or Long
Rest, the DC resets to 10.
LEVEL 13: IMPROVED BRUTAL STRIKE
You have honed new ways to attack furiously. The
following effects are now among your Brutal Strike
options.
Staggering Blow. The target has Disadvantage on
the next saving throw it makes, and it can't make
Opportunity Attacks until the start of your next
turn.
Sundering Blow. Before the start of your next
turn, the next attack roll made by another creature
against the target gains a +5 bonus to the roll. An
attack roll can gain only one Sundering Blow bonus.
LEVEL 15: PERSISTENT RAGE
When you roll Initiative, you can regain all expended uses of Rage. After you regain uses of Rage
in this way, you can't do so again until you finish a
Long Rest.
In addition, your Rage is so fierce that it now lasts
for 10 minutes without you needing to do anything
to extend it from round to round. Your Rage ends
early if you have the Unconscious condition (not
just the Incapacitated condition) or don Heavy
armor.
LEVEL 17: IMPROVED BRUTAL STRIKE
The extra damage of your Brutal Strike increases to
2d10. In addition, you can use two different Brutal
Strike effects whenever you use your Brutal Strike
feature.
LEVEL 18: INDOMITABLE MIGHT
If your total for a Strength check or Strength saving throw is less than your Strength score, you can
use that score in place of the total.
LEVEL 19: EPIC BOON
You gain an Epic Boon feat (see chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which you qualify.
Boon of Irresistible Offense is recommended.
LEVEL 20: PRIMAL CHAMPION
You embody primal power. Your Strength and Constitution scores increase by 4, to a maximum of 25.
CHAPT ER 3 I CHARACTER CLA SSE
