# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 58/387

~
,... ,.r
-
-
--------..✓-
_) , ~-
CORE BAR D T R/I.I TS
Primary Ability
-• ·- -
- - .::::;--'
_
" ~
-:---· .
-
--- -
-I BARD CLASS FEATURES
Charisma
As a Bard, you gain the following class features
Hit Point Die
D8 per Bard level
when you reach the specified Bard levels. These fea-
Saving Throw
Proficiencies
Dexterity and Charisma
tures are listed in the Bard Features table.
Skill Proficiencies
Weapon Proficiencies
Tool Proficiencies
Armor Training
Starting Equipment
Choose any 3 skills (see
chapter l)
Simple weapons
Choose 3 Musical Instruments
(see chapter 6)
Light armor
Choose A or B: (A) Leather
Armor, 2 Daggers, Musical
Instrument of your choice,
Entertainer's Pack, and 19
GP; or (B) 90 GP
NVOKING MAGIC THROUGH MUSIC, DANCE,
I ! and verse, Bards are expert at inspiring others,
ll soothing hurts, disheartening foes, and creating illusions. Bards believe the multiverse was spoken into existence and that remnants of its Words
of Creation still resound and glimmer on every
plane of existence. Bardic magic attempts to harness
those words, which transcend any language.
Anything can inspire a new song or tale, so Bards
are fascinated by almost everything. They become
masters of many things, including performing music, working magic, and making jests.
A Bard's life is spent traveling, gathering lore, telling stories, and living on the gratitude of audiences,
much like any other entertainer. But Bards' depth of
knowledge and mastery of magic sets them apart.
BECOMING A BARD ...
As A L EVEL 1 CHARACTER
Gain all the traits in the Core Bard Traits table.
Gain the Bard's level 1 features, which are listed in
the Bard Features table.
As A MULTICLASS CHARACTER
Gain the following traits from the Core Bard
Traits table: Hit Point Die, proficiency in one skill
of your choice, proficiency with one Musical Instrument of your choice, and training with Light
armor.
Gain the Bard's level 1 features, which are listed
in the Bard Features table. See the multiclassing
rules in chapter 2 to determine your available
spell slots.
LEVEL l: BARDIC INSPIRATION
You can supernaturally inspire others through
words, music, or dance. This inspiration is represented by your Bardic Inspiration die, which is a d6.
Using Bardic Inspiration. As a Bonus Action, you
can inspire another creature within 60 feet of yourself who can see or hear you. That creature gains
one of your Bardic Inspiration dice. A creature can
have only one Bardic Inspiration die at a time.
Once within the next hour when the creature fails
a D20 Test, the creature can roll the Bardic Inspiration die and add the number rolled to the d20, potentially turning the failure into a success. A Bardic
Inspiration die is expended when it's rolled.
Number of Uses. You can confer a Bardic Inspiration die a number of times equal to your Charisma
modifier (minimum of once), and you regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.
At Higher Levels. Your Bardic Inspiration die
changes when you reach certain Bard levels, as
shown in the Bardic Die column of the Bard Features table. The die becomes a d8 at level 5, a dlO at
level 10, and a d12 at level 15.
LEVEL 1: SPELLCASTING
You have learned to cast spells through your bardic
arts. See chapter 7 for the rules on spellcasting. The
information below details how you use those rules
with Bard spells, which appear in the Bard spell list
later in the class's description.
Cantrips. You know two cantrips of your choice
from the Bard spell list. Dancing Lights and Vicious
Mockery are recommended.
Whenever you gain a Bard level, you can replace
one of your cantrips with another cantrip of your
choice from the Bard spell list.
When you reach Bard levels 4 and 10, you learn
another can trip of your choice from the Bard spell
list, as shown in the Cantrips column of the Bard
Features table.
Spell Slots. The Bard Features table shows how
many spell slots you have to cast your level 1+ spells.
You regain all expended slots when you finish a
Long Rest.
Prepared Spells of Level 1+. You prepare the list of
level 1+ spells that are available for you to cast with
this feature. To start, choose four level 1 spells from
the Bard spell list. Charm Person, Color Spray, Dissonant Whispers, and Healing Word are recommended.
CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER C LASSES
5 c...
