# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 295/387

MASS CURE WOUNDS
Level 5 Abjuration (Bard, C/er-ic, Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
A wave of healing energy washes out from a point
you can see within range. Choose up to six creatures in a 30-foot-radius Sphere centered on that
point. Each target regains Hit Points equal to Sd8
plus your spellcasting ability modifier.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing increases by ld8 for each spell slot level above 5.
MASS HEAL
Level 9 Abjuration (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
A flood of healing energy flows from you into
creatures around you. You restore up to 700 Hit
Points, divided as you choose among any number of
creatures that you can see within range. Creatures
healed by this spell also have the Blinded, Deafened,
and Poisoned conditions removed from them.
MASS HEALING WORD
Level 3 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Up to six creatures of your choice that you can see
within range regain Hit Points equal to 2d4 plus
your spellcasting ability modifier.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing increases by 1d4 for each spell slot level above 3.
MASS SUGGESTION
Level 6 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, M (a snake's tongue)
Duration: 24 hours
You suggest a course of activity-described in no
more than 25 words-to twelve or fewer creatures you can see within range that can hear and
?Oh
CHAPTER 7 I SPE LLS
understand you. The suggestion must so•.!nd achievable and not involve anything that would obviously
deal damage to any of the targets or their allies. For
example, you could say, "Walk to the village down
that road, and help the vi llagers there harvest crops
until sunset." Or you could say, "Now is not t he time
for violence. Drop your weapons, and dance! Stop in
an hour."
Each target must succeed on a Wisdom saving
throw or have the Charmed condition for the duration or until you or your allies deal damage to the
target. Each Charmed target pursues the suggestion
to the best of its ability. The suggested activity can
continue for the entire duration, but if the suggested activity can be completed in a shorter time,
the spell ends for a target upon completing it.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The duration is
longer with a spell slot of level 7 (10 days), 8 (30
days), or 9 (366 days).
.,..
MAZE
Level 8 Conjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You banish a creature that you can see within range
into a labyrinthine demiplane. The target remains
there for the duration or until it escapes the maze.
The target can take a Study action to try to escape. When it does so, it makes a DC 20 Intelligence
(Investigation) check. If it succeeds, it escapes, and
the spell ends.
When the spell ends, the target reappears in the
space it left or, if that space is occupied, in the nearest unoccupied space.
MELD INTO STONE
Level 3 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range:Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: 8 hours
You step into a stone object or surface large enough
to fully contain your body, merging yourself and
your equipment with the stone for the duration.
You must touch the stone to clo so. Nothing of your
presence remains visible or otherwise detectable by
nonmagical senses.
While merged with the st.one:, :,rou can't see what
occurs outside it, and any Vvi.,;tl,,: ;J (Perception)
checks you make to hear sou,;(.' · 0·1tside it are made
