# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 50/387

----{--.--:::~--:'T. __
• -·· --~=-.::. -
- _ •. /; r -
-=-
- ----·-- --- - -----
-
, , I y
.. -- -
-
', . r
BARBARIAN CLASS FEATURES
CORE BA RBAR I AN TRAITS
Primary Ability
Hit Point Die
Saving Throw
Proficiencies
Skill Proficiencies
Strength
Dl2 per Barbarian level
Strength and Constitution
Choose 2: Animal Handling,
Athletics, Intimidation, Nature, Perception, or Survival
Weapon Proficiencies Simple and Martial weapons
Armor Training
Starting Equipment
Light and Medium armor
and Shields
Choose A or B: (A) Greataxe,
4 Handaxes, Explorer's Pack,
and 15 GP; or (B) 75 GP
ARBARIANS ARE MIGHTY WARRIORS WHO
1 [) '\ are powered by primal forces of the multi-
} __ ~
verse that manifest as a Rage. More than a
mere emotion- and not limited to anger-this Rage
is an incarnation of a predator's ferocity, a storm's
fury, and a sea's turmoil.
Some Barbarians personify their Rage as a fierce
spirit or revered forebear. Others see it as a connection to the pain and anguish of the world, as an
impersonal tangle of wild magic, or as an expression
of their own deepest self. For every Barbarian, their
Rage is a power that fuels not just battle prowess,
but also uncanny reflexes and heightened senses.
Barbarians often serve as protectors and leaders
in their communities. They charge headlong into
danger so those under their protection don't have
to. Their courage in the face of danger makes Barbarians perfectly suited for adventure.
BECOMING A BARBARIAN
As A LEVEL 1 CHARACTER
Gain all the traits in the Core Barbarian Traits
table.
Gain the Barbarian's level 1 features, which are
listed in the Barbarian Features table.
As A MULTICLASS CHARACTER
Gain the following traits from the Core Barbarian
Traits table: Hit Point Die, proficiency with Martial weapons, and training with Shields.
Gain the Barbarian's level 1 features, which are
listed in the Barbarian Features table.
As a Barbarian, you gain the following class features when you reach the specified Barbarian levels.
I
These features are listed in the Barbarian Features
table.
I LEVEL l: RAGE
,
You can imbue yourself with a primal power called
Rage, a force that grants you extraordinary might
and resilience. You can enter it as a Bonus Action if
you aren't wearing Heavy armor.
You can enter your Rage the number of times
shown for your Barbarian level in the Rages column
of the Barbarian Features table. You regain one expended use when you finish a Short Rest, and you
regain all expended uses when you finish a Long
Rest.
While active, your Rage follows the rules below.
Damage Resistance. You have Resistance to Bludgeoning, Piercing, and Slashing damage.
Rage Damage. When you make an attack using
Strength- with either a weapon or an Unarmed
Strike-and deal damage to the target, you gain
a bonus to the damage that increases as you gain
levels as a Barbarian, as shown in the Rage Damage
column of the Barbarian Features table.
Strength Advantage. You have Advantage on
Strength checks and Strength saving throws.
No Concentration or Spells. You can't maintain
Concentration, and you can't cast spells.
Duration. The Rage lasts until the end of your
next turn, and it ends early if you don Heavy armor
or have the Incapacitated condition. If your Rage
is still active on your next turn, you can extend
the Rage for another round by doing one of the
following:
Make an attack roll against an enemy.
• Force an enemy to make a saving throw.
• Take a Bonus Action to extend your Rage.
Each time the Rage is extended, it lasts until the end
of your next turn. You can maintain a Rage for up
to 10 minutes.
LEVEL l: UNARMORED DEFENSE
While you aren't wearing any armor, your base Armor Class equals 10 plus your Dexterity and Constitution modifiers. You can use a Shield and still gain
this benefit.
CHAPTER 3 I CHA RACTER CL.-\ SSE
51
