# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 342/387

WITC H B O LT
Level 1 Evocation (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a twig struck by lightning)
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
A beam of crackling energy lances toward a creature w ithin range, forming a sustained arc of lightning between you and the target. Make a ranged
spell attack against it. On a hit, the target takes
2dl2 Lightning damage.
On each of your subsequent turns, you can take a
Bonus Action to deal ld12 Lightning damage to the
target automatically, even if the first attack missed.
The spell ends if the target is ever outside the
spell's range or if it has Total Cover from you.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The initial damage
increases by ld12 for each spell slot level above 1.
WORD OF RADI A N CE
Evocation Cantrip (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, M (a sunburst token)
Duration: Instantaneous
Burning radiance erupts from you in a 5-foot Emanation. Each creature of your choice that you can
see in it must succeed on a Constitution saving
throw or take ld6 Radiant damage.
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by ld6
when you reach levels S {2d6), 11 (3d6), and 17 (4d6).
WORD O F RECALL
Level 6 Conjuration (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 5 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
You and up to five willing creatures within S feet
of you instantly teleport to a previously designated
sanctuary. You and any creatures that teleport with
you appear in the nearest unoccupied space to the
spot you designated when you prepared your sanctuary (see below). If you cast this spell without first
preparing a sanctuary, the spell has no effect.
You :nnst designate a location, such as a temple, as
a sanci.,ury by casting this spell there.
W RATHFUL SMITE
Level 1 Necromancy (Paladin)
Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immediately after hitting a creature with a Melee weapon or
an Unarmed Strike
Range: Self
Component: V
Duration: l minute
The target takes an extra ld6 Necrotic damage
from the attack, and it must succeed on a Wisdom
saving throw or have the Frightened condition until
the spell ends. At the end of each of its turns, the
Frightened target repeats the save, ending the spell
on itself on a success.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage increases by ld6 for each spell slot level above 1.
I;:------- -- ---
YOLANDE'S REGAL PRESENCE
Level 5 Enchantment (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Component: V, S, M (a miniature tiara)
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
You surround yourself with unearthly majesty in a
10-foot Emanation. Whenever the Emanation enters the space of a creature you can see and whenever a creature you can see enters the Emanation or
ends its turn there, you can force that creature to
make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the
target takes 4d6 Psychic damage and has the Prone
condition, and you can push it up to 10 feet away.
On a successful save, the target takes half as much
damage only. A creature makes this save only once
per turn.
ZONE OF TRUTH
Level 2 Enchantment (Bard, Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 10 minutes
You create a magical zone that guards against deception in a 15-foot-radius Sphere centered on a
point within range. Until the spell ends, a creature
that enters the spell's area for the first time on a
turn or starts its turn there makes a Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, a creature can't speak a
deliberate lie while in the radius. You know whether
a creature succeeds or fails on this save.
An affected creature is aware of the spell and
can avoid answering questions to which it would
normally respond with a lie. Such a creature can be
evasive yet must be truthful.
CH APTE R 7 I SPE LLS
34-3
