# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 311/387

REMOVE CURSE
Level 3 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
At your touch, all curses affecting one creature
or object end. If the object is a cursed magic item,
its curse remains, but the spell breaks its owner's
Attunement to the object so it can be removed or
discarded.
RESISTANCE
Abjuration Cantrip (Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Component: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You touch a willing creature and choose a damage
type: Acid, Bludgeoning, Cold, Fire, Lightning, Necrotic, Piercing, Poison, Radiant, Slashing, or Thunder. When the creature takes damage of the chosen
type before the spell ends, the creature reduces the
total damage taken by ld4. A creature can benefit
from this spell only once per turn.
RESURRECTION
Level 7 Necromancy (Bard, Cleric)
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth 1,000+ GP,
which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
With a touch, you revive a dead creature that has
been dead for no more than a century, didn't die of
old age, and wasn't Undead when it died.
The creature returns to life with all its Hit Points.
This spell also neutralizes any poisons that affected
the creature at the time of death. This spell closes
all mortal wounds and restores any missing body
parts.
Coming back from the dead is an ordeal. The target takes a -4 penalty to D20 Tests. Every time the
target finishes a Long Rest, the penalty is reduced
by 1 until it becomes 0.
Casting this spell to revive a creature that has
been dead for 365 days or longer taxes you. Until
you finish a Long Rest, you can't cast spells again,
and you have Disadvantage on D20 Tests.
REVERSE GRAVITY
Level 7 Transmuta tion (Druid, S01-cerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 100 feet
Components: V, S, M (a lodestone and iro n fil ings)
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
This spell reverses gravity in a SO-foot-radius, 100-
foot high Cylinder centered on a point within range.
All creatures and objects in that area that aren't
anchored to the ground fall upward and reach the
top of the Cylinder. A creature can make a Dexterity saving throw to grab a fixed object it can reach,
thus avoiding the fall upward.
If a ceiling or an anchored object is encountered
in this upward fall, creatures and objects strike it
just as they would during a downward fall. If an affected creature or object reaches the Cylinder's top
without striking anything, it hovers there for the
duration. When the spell ends, affected objects and
creatures fall downward.
REVIVIFY
Level 3 Necromancy (Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth 300+ GP,
which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
You touch a creature that has died within the last
minute. That creature revives with 1 Hit Point. This
spell can't revive a creature that has died of old age,
nor does it restore any missing body parts.
ROPE TRICK
Level 2 Transmutation (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (a segment of rope)
Duration: l hour
You touch a rope. One end of it hovers upward until
the rope hangs perpendicular to the ground or the
rope reaches a ceiling. At the rope's upper end, an
Invisible 3-foot-by-5-foot portal opens to an extradimensional space that lasts until the spell ends.
That space can be reached by climbing the rope,
which can be pulled into or dropped out of it.
The space can hold up to eight Medium or smaller
creatures. Attacks, spells, and 1)th{' r effects can't
pass into or out of the space, but c1·e2tures inside
it can see through the portal. Anytning inside the
space drops out when the !>1Y'll (»-,:l.;.
