# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 63/387

BARD SUBCLASSE S
A Bard subclass is a specialization that grant you
features at certain Bard levels, as specified in the
subclass. Bards form loose associations, which
they call colleges, to preserve their traditions. This
section presents the College of Dance, College of
Glamour, College of Lore, and College of Valor
subclasses.
COLLEGE OF DANCE
Move in Harmony with the Cosmos
Bards of the College of Dance know that the Words
of Creation can't be contained within speech or
song; the words are uttered by the movements of
celestial bodies and flow through the motions of
the smallest creatures. These Bards practice a way
of being in harmony with the whirling cosmos that
emphasizes agility, speed, and grace.
LEVEL 3: DAZZLING FOOTWORK
While you aren't wearing armor or wielding a
Shield, you gain the following benefits.
Dance Virtuoso. You have Advantage on any Charisma (Performance) check you make that involves
you dancing.
Unarmored Defense. Your base Armor Class equals
10 plus your Dexterity and Charisma modifiers.
Agile Strikes. When you expend a use of your Bardic Inspiration as part of an action, a Bonus Action,
or a Reaction, you can make one Unarmed Strike as
part of that action, Bonus Action, or Reaction.
Bardic Damage. You can use Dexterity instead
of Strength for the attack rolls of your Unarmed
Strikes. When you deal damage with an Unarmed
Strike, you can deal Bludgeoning damage equal to a
roll of your Bardic Inspiration die plus your Dexterity modifier, instead of the strike's normal damage.
This roll doesn't expend the die.
LEVEL 6: INSPIRING MOVEMENT
When an enemy you can see ends its turn within 5
feet of you, you can take a Reaction and expend one
use of your Bardic Inspiration to move up to half
your Speed. Then one ally of your choice within 30
feet of you can also move up to half their Speed using their Reaction.
None of this feature's movement provokes Opportunity Attacks.
LEVEL 6: TANDEM FOOTWORK
When you roll Initiative, you can expend one use
of your Bardic Inspiration if you don't have the
Incapacitated condition. When you do so, roll your
Bardic Inspiration die; you and each ally within 30
feet of you who can see or hear you gains a bonus to
Initiative equal to the number rolled.
