# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 287/387

ILLUSORY SCRIPT
Level I Illusion (Bard, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: l minute or Ritual
Range:Touch
.
Components: S, M (ink worth 10+ GP, which the spell
consumes)
Duration: 10 days
You write on parchment, paper, or another suitable
material and imbue it with an illusion that lasts for
the duration. To you and any creatures you designate when you cast the spell, the writing appears
normal, seems to be written in your hand, and
conveys whatever meaning you intended when you
wrote the text. To all others, the writing appears as
if it were written in an unknown or magical script
that is unintelligible. Alternatively, the illusion can
alter the meaning, handwriting, and language of the
text, though the language must be one you know.
If the spell is dispelled, the original script and the
illusion both disappear.
A creature that has Truesight can read the hidden
message.
IMPRISONMENT
Level 9 Abjuration (Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: l minute
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a statuette of the target worth
5,000+ GP)
Duration: Until dispelled
You create a magical restraint to hold a creature
that you can see within range. The target must
make a Wisdom saving throw. On a successful save,
the target is unaffected, and it is immune to this
spell for the next 24 hours. On a failed save, the
target is imprisoned. While imprisoned, the target
doesn't need to breathe, eat, or drink, and it doesn't
age. Divination spells can't locate or perceive the
imprisoned target, and the target can't teleport.
Until the spell ends, the target is also affected by
one of the following effects of your choice:
Burial. The target is entombed beneath the earth in
a hollow globe of magical force that is just large
enough to contain the target. Nothing can pass
into or out of the globe.
Chaining. Chains firmly rooted in the ground hold
the target in place. The target has the Restrained
condition and can't be moved by any means.
Hedged Prison. The target is trapped in a demiplane that is warded against teleportation and
planar travel. The demiplane is your choice of a
labyrinth, a cage, a tower, or the like.
288
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
Minimus Containment. The target b!=cnmes 1 inch
tall and is trapped inside an indestructible gemstone or a similar object. Light can pass through
the gemstone (allowing the target to see out and
other creatures to see in), but nothing else can
pass through by any means.
Slumber. The target has the Unconscious condition
and can't be awoken.
Ending the Spell. When you cast the spell, specify
a trigger that will end it. The trigger can be as simple or as elaborate as you choose, but the OM must
agree that it has a high likelihood of happening
within the next decade. The trigger must be an observable action, such as someone making a particular offering at the temple of your god, saving your
true love, or defeating a specific monster.
A Dispel Magic spell can end the spell only if it is
cast with a level 9 spell slot, targeting either the
prison or the component used to create it.
INCENDIARY CLOUD
Level 8 Conjuration (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
A swirling cloud of embers and smoke fills a
20-foot-radius Sphere centered on a point within
range. The cloud's area is Heavily Obscured. It lasts
for the duration or until a strong wind {like that
created by Gust of Wind) disperses it.
When the cloud appears, each creature in it
makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 10d8 Fire
damage on a failed save or half as much damage
on a successful one. A creature must also make
this save when the Sphere moves into its space and
when it enters the Sphere or ends its turn there. A
creature makes this save only once per turn.
The cloud moves 10 feet away from you in a direction you choose at the start of each of your turns.
;..
INFLICT WOUNDS
Level 1 Necromancy (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
A creature you touch makes c1 Constitution saving
throw, taking 2d10 Necrotic damage on a failed save
or half as much damage on a successful one.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot"., The damage increases by ldlO for each spd 1 c;Jot. l(:vel above 1.
