# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 56/387

PA~~ -0 1: r-:i:-;:f, ZE A LOT - - -
Rage in Ecstatic Union with a God
Barbarians who walk the Path of the Zealot receive
boons from a god or pantheon. These Barbarians
experience their Rage as an ecstatic episode of
divine union that infuses them with power. They
are often allies to the priests and other followers of
their god or pantheon.
LEVEL 3: DIVINE FURY
You can channel divine power into your strikes. On
each of your turns while your Rage is active, the
first creature you hit with a weapon or an Unarmed
Strike takes extra damage equal to ld6 plus half
your Barbarian level (round down). The extra damage is Necrotic or Radiant; you choose the type each
time you deal the damage.
LEVEL 3: WARRIOR OF THE GODS
A divine entity helps ensure you can continue the
fight. You have a pool of four dl2s that you can
spend to heal yourself. As a Bonus Action, you can
expend dice from the pool, roll them, and regain a
number of Hit Points equal to the roll's total.
Your pool regains all expended dice when you finish a Long Rest.
The pool's maximum number of dice increases by
one when you reach Barbarian levels 6 (5 dice), 12
(6 dice), and 17 (7 dice).
LEVEL 6: FANATICAL Focus
Once per active Rage, if you fail a saving throw, you
can reroll it with a bonus equal to your Rage Damage bonus, and you must use the new roll.
LEVEL 10: ZEALOUS PRESENCE
As a Bonus Action, you unleash a battle cry infused
with divine energy. Up to ten other creatures of
your choice within 60 feet of you gain Advantage
on attack rolls and saving throws until the start of
your next turn.
Once you use this feature, you can't use it again
until you finish a Long Rest unless you expend a use
of your Rage (no action required} to restore your
use of it.
LEVEL 14: RAGE OF THE GODS
When you activate your Rage, you can assume the
form of a divine warrior. This form lasts for 1 minute or until you drop to O Hit Points. Once you use
this feature, you can't do so again until you finish a
Long Rest.
While in this form, you gain the benefits below.
Flight. You have a Fly Speed equal to your Speed
and can hover.
Resistance. You have Resistance to Necrotic, Psychic, and Radiant damage.
Revivification. When a creature within 30 feet
of you would drop to O Hit Points, you can take a
Reaction to expend a use of your Rage to instead
change the target's Hit Points to a number equal to
your Barbarian level.
