# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 307/387

PRI SMATIC WALL
Level 9 Abjuration (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 10 minutes
A shimmering, multicolored plane of light forms
a vertical opaque wall-up to 90 feet long, 30 feet
high, and 1 inch thick-centered on a point within
range. Alternatively, you shape the wall into a globe
up to 30 feet in diameter centered on a point within
range. The wall lasts for the duration. If you position the wall in a space occupied by a creature, the
spell ends instantly without effect.
The wall sheds Bright Light within 100 feet and
Dim Light for an additional 100 feet. You and creatures you designate when you cast the spell can
pass through and be near the wall without harm. If
another creature that can see the wall moves within
20 feet of it or starts its turn there, the creature
must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or
have the Blinded condition for 1 minute.
The wall consists of seven layers, each with a
different color. When a creature reaches into or
passes through the waJl, it does so one layer at a
time through all the layers. Each layer forces the
creature to make a Dexterity saving throw or be affected by that layer's properties as described in the
Prismatic Layers table.
The wall, which has AC 10, can be destroyed one
layer at a time, in order from red to violet, by means
specific to each layer. If a layer is destroyed, it is
gone for the duration. Antimagic Field has no effect
on the wall, and Dispel Magic can affect only the violet layer.
PRODUCE FLAME
Conjuration Cantrip (Druid)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: 10 minutes
A flickering flame appears in your hand and remains
there for the duration. While there, the flame emits
no heat and ignites nothing, and it sheds Bright
Light in a 2O-foot radius and Dim Light for an additional 20 feet. The spell ends if you cast it again.
Until the spell ends, you can take a Magic action
to hurl fire at a creature or an object within 60 feet
of you. Make a ranged spell attack. On a hit, the target takes 1d8 Fire damage.
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by ld8
when you reach levels 5 (2d8), 11 (3d8), and 17 (4d8).
308
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
PRISMATIC LAYERS
Order Effects
Red. Failed Save: 12d6 Fire damage. Successful Save: Half as much damage. Additional
Effects: Nonmagical ranged attacks can't
pass through this layer, which is destroyed if
it takes at least 25 Cold damage.
2
Orange. Failed Save: 12d6 Acid damage.
Successful Save: Half as much damage. Additional Effects: Magical ranged attacks can't
pass through th is layer, which is destroyed
by a strong wind (such as the one created by
Gust of Wind) .
3
Yellow. Failed Save: 12d6 Lightning damage.
Successful Save: Half as much damage. Additional Effects: The layer is destroyed if it takes
at least 60 Force damage.
4
Green. Failed Save: 12d6 Poison damage.
Successful Save: Half as much damage. Additional Effects: A Passwa/1 spell, or another
spell of equal or greater level that can open a
portal on a solid surface, destroys this layer.
5
Blue. Failed Save: 12d6 Cold damage. Successful Save: Half as much damage. Additional Effects: The layer is destroyed if it takes
at least 25 Fire damage.
6
Indigo. Failed Save: The target has the Restrained condition and makes a Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its
turns. If it successfu lly saves three ti mes,
the condition ends. If it fa ils three times, it
has the Petrified condition until it is freed by
an effect like the Greater Restoration spell.
The successes and fa ilures needn't be consecutive; keep track of both until the target
collects three of a kind. Additional Effects:
Spells can't be cast th rough this layer, which
is destroyed by Bright Light shed by the Daylight spell.
7
Violet. Failed Save: The target has the
Blinded condition and makes a Wisdom saving throw at the start of your next turn. On
a successful save, the condition ends. On a
failed save, the condition ends, and the creature teleports to another plane of existence
(DM's choice). Additinnol Effects: This layer
is destroyed by Dispel tv1ae,ic.
