# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 68/387

!
.i
CORE CLERIC TRAITS
Primary Ability
Hit Point Die
Saving Throw
Proficiencies
,
Skill Proficiencies
i
I '
:
Wisdom
D8 per Cleric level
Wisdom and Charisma
Choose 2: History, Insight,
Medicine, Persuasion, or
Religion
Weapon Proficiencies Simple weapons
Armor Training
Starting Equipment
Light and Medium armor
and Shields
Choose A or 8: (A) Chain
Shirt, Shield, Mace, Holy
Symbol, Priest's Pack, and 7
GP; or (B) 110 GP
I
:I
; 1
I I
I i
~:-::: ====================~,....
LERICS DRAW POWER FROM THE REALMS
of the gods and harness it to work miracles.
Blessed by a deity, a pantheon, or another
immortal entity, a Cleric can reach out to the divine
magic of the Outer Planes- where gods dwell-and
channel it to bolster people and battle foes.
Because their power is a divine gift, Clerics typically associate themselves with temples dedicated
to the deity or other immortal force that unlocked
their magic. Harnessing divine magic doesn't rely
on specific training, yet Clerics might learn prayers
and rites that help them draw on power from the
Outer Planes.
Not every member of a temple or shrine is a
Cleric. Some priests are called to a simple life of
temple service, carrying out their devotion through
prayer and rituals, not through magic. Many mortals claim to speak for the gods, but few can marshal
the power of those gods the way a Cleric can.
BECOMING A CLERIC ...
As A LEVEL 1 CHARACTER
• Gain all the traits in the Core Cleric Traits table.
• Gain the Cleric's level 1 features, which are listed
in the Cleric Features table.
As A MULTICLASS CHARACTER
• Gain the following traits from the Core Cleric
Traits table: Hit Point Die and training with Light
and Medium armor and Shields .
Gain the Cleric's level 1 features, which are listed
in the Cleric Features table. See the multiclassing
rules in chapter 2 to determine your available
spell slots.
As a Cleric, you gain the following class features
when you reach the specified Cleric levels. These
features are listed in the Cleric Features table.
LEVEL 1: SPELLCASTING
You have learned to cast spells through prayer and
meditation. See chapter 7 for the rules on spellcasting. The information below details how you use
those rules with Cleric spells, which appear on the
Cleric spell list later in the class's description.
Cantrips. You know three cantrips of your choice
from the Cleric spell list. Guidance, Sacred Flame, and
Thaumaturgy are recommended.
Whenever you gain a Cleric level, you can replace
one of your can trips with another cantrip of your
choice from the Cleric spell list.
When you reach Cleric levels 4 and 10, you learn
another cantrip of your choice from the Cleric spell
list, as shown in the Cantrips column of the Cleric
Features table.
Spell Slots. The Cleric Features table shows how
many spell slots you have to cast your level 1+ spells.
You regain all expended slots when you finish a
Long Rest.
Prepared Spells of Level 1+. You prepare the list of
level 1+ spells that are available for you to cast with
this feature. To start, choose four level 1 spells from
the Cleric spell list. Bless, Cure Wounds, Guiding Bolt,
and Shield of Faith are recommended.
The number of spells on your list increases as you
gain Cleric levels, as shown in the Prepared Spells
column of the Cleric Features table. Whenever that
number increases, choose additional spells from the
Cleric spell list until the number of spells on your
list matches the number on the table. The chosen
spells must be of a level for which you have spell
slots. For example, if you're a level 3 Cleric, your list
of prepared spells can include six spells of levels 1
and 2 in any combination.
If another Cleric feature gives you spells that
you always have prepared, those spells don't count
against the number of spells you can prepare with
this feature, but those spells otherwise count as
Cleric spells for you.
Changing Your Prepared Spells. Whenever you
finish a Long Rest, you can change your list of prepared spells, replacing any of the spells there with
other Cleric spells for which you have spell slots.
Spellcasting Ability. Wisdom is your spellcasting
ability for your Cleric spells.
Spellcasting Focus. You can use a Holy Symbol as a
Spellcasting Focus for your Cleric spells.
:1
i
'f
I
I
I
I
t
I
CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES
69
