# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 74/387

,,_
0
:_,1: VEL 6: b i :C-t~•:.:-,-.c: D W ARDING FLARE
·r'ou regain all expended uses of your Warding Flare
, ,hen you finish a Short or Long Rest.
In addition, whenever you use Warding Flare, you
can give the target of the triggering attack a number of Temporary Hit Points equal to 2d6 plus your
Wisdom modifier.
LEVEL 17: CORONA OF LIGHT
As a Magic action, you cause yourself to emit an
aura of sunlight that lasts for 1 minute or until you
dismiss it (no action required). You emit Bright
Light in a 60-foot radius and Dim Light for an additional 30 feet. Your enemies in the Bright Light
have Disadvantage on saving throws against your
Radiance of the Dawn and any spell that deals Fire
or Radiant damage.
You can use this feature a number of times equal
to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of once), and
you regain all expended uses when you finish a
Long Rest.
TRICKERY DOMAIN
Make Mischief and Challenge Authority
The Trickery Domain offers magic of deception, illusion, and stealth. Clerics who wield this magic are
a disruptive force in the world, puncturing pride,
mocking tyrants, freeing captives, and flouting hollow traditions. They prefer subterfuge and pranks
to direct confrontation.
Gods of trickery are mischief-makers and instigators who stand as a constant challenge to the
accepted order among both gods and mortals.
They embody the forces of change and social upheaval, and they're patrons of thieves, scoundrels,
gamblers, rebels, and liberators. Religious orders
that operate in secret, especially those that seek to
undermine oppressive governments or hierarchies,
also draw on the power of the Trickery Domain.
LEVEL 3: BLESSING OF THE TRICKSTER
As a Magic action, you can choose yourself or a
willing creature within 30 feet of yourself to have
Advantage on Dexterity {Stealth) checks. This
blessing lasts until you finish a Long Rest or you use
this feature again.
LEVEL 3: INVOKE DUPLICITY
As a Bonus Action, you can expend one use of your
Channel Divinity to create a perfect visual illusion
of yourself in an unoccupied space you can see
within 30 feet of yourself. The illusion is intangible
and doesn't occupy its space. It lasts for 1 minute,
but it ends early if you dismiss it (no action required} or have the Incapacitated condition. The illusion is animated and mimics your expressions and
