# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 140/387

You have 2 Sorcery Points, and you gain more as
you reach higher levels, as shown in the Sorcery
Points column of the Sorcerer Features table. You
can't have more Sorcery Points than the number
shown in the table for your level. You regain all expended Sorcery Points when you finish a Long Rest.
You can use your Sorcery Points to fuel the
options below, along with other features, such as
Metamagic, that use those points.
Converting Spell Slots to Sorcery Points. You can
expend a spell slot to gain a number of Sorcery
Points equal to the slot's level (no action required).
Creating Spell Slots. As a Bonus Action, you can
transform unexpended Sorcery Points into one spell
slot. The Creating Spell Slots table shows the cost
of creating a spell slot of a given level, and it lists
the minimum Sorcerer level you must be to create
a slot. You can create a spell slot no higher than
level 5.
Any spell slot you create with this feature vanishes when you finish a Long Rest.
CREATING SPELL SLOTS
Spell Slot
Sorcery Point
Level
Cost
l
2
3
4
5
2
3
5
6
7
L EVEL 2: METAMAGIC
Min. Sorcerer
Level
2
3
5
7
9
Because your magic flows from within, you can
alter your spells to suit your needs; you gain two
Metamagic options of your choice from "Metamagic Options" later in this class's description. You
use the chosen options to temporarily modify spells
you cast. To use an option, you must spend the number of Sorcery Points that it costs.
You can use only one Metamagic option on a spell
when you cast it unless otherwise noted in one of
those options.
Whenever you gain a Sorcerer level, you can replace one of your Meta magic options with one you
don't know. You gain two more options at Sorcerer
level 10 and two more at Sorcerer level 17.
L EVEL 3: SORCERER SUBCLASS
You gain a Sorcerer subclass of your choice. The
Aberrant Sorcery, Clockwork Sorcery, Draconic
Sorcery, and Wild Magic Sorcery subclasses are
detailed after this class's description. A subclass is
a specialization that grants you features at certain
Sorcerer levels. For the rest of your career, you gain
each of your subclass's features that are of your
Sorcerer level or lower.
LEVEL 4: ABILITY SCORE IMPROVEMENT
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see
chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which
you qualify. You gain this feature again at Sorcerer
levels 8, 12, and 16.
LEVEL 5: SORCEROUS RESTORATION
When you finish a Short Rest, you can regain expended Sorcery Points, but no more than a number
equal to half your Sorcerer level (round down).
Once you use this feature, you can't do so again until you finish a Long Rest.
LEVEL 7: SORCERY INCARNATE
If you have no uses of Innate Sorcery left, you can
use it if you spend 2 Sorcery Points when you take
the Bonus Action to activate it.
In addition, while your Innate Sorcery feature is
active, you can use up to two of your Meta magic
options on each spell you cast.
LEVEL 19: EPIC BOON
You gain an Epic Boon feat (see chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which you qualify.
Boon of Dimensional Travel is recommended.
LEVEL 20: ARCANE APOTHEOSIS
While your Innate Sorcery feature is active, you
can use one Meta magic option on each of your
turns without spending Sorcery Points on it.
METAMAGIC OPTIONS
The following options are available to your Metamagic feature. The options are presented in alphabetical order.
CAREFUL SPELL
Cost: 1 Sorcery Point
When you cast a spell that forces other creatures
to make a saving throw, you can protect some of
those creatures from the spell's full force. To do so,
spend 1 Sorcery Point and choose a number of those
creatures up to your Charisma modifier (minimum
of one creature). A chosen creature automatically
succeeds on its saving throw against the spell, and it
takes no damage if it would normally take half damage on a successful save.
DISTANT SPELL
Cost: 1 Sorcery Point
When you cast a spell that has a range of at least 5
feet, you can spend 1 Sorcery Point to double the
spell's range. Or when you cast a spell that has a
range of Touch, you can spend 1 Sorcery Point to
make the spell's range 30 feet.
II APTER 3 I C t-I A R:\CT ER CLASSES
TA. I
