# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 227/387

POLE (5 CP)
A Pole is 10 feet long. You can use it to touch
something up to 10 feet away. If you must make a
Strength (Athletics) check as part of a High or Long
Jump, you can use the Pole to vault, giving yourself
Advantage on the check.
POT, IRON (2 GP)
An Iron Pot holds up to 1 gallon.
POTION OF HEALING (50 GP)
This potion is a magic item. As a Bonus Action, you
can drink it or administer it to another creature
within 5 feet of yourself. The creature that drinks
the magical red fluid in this vial regains 2d4 + 2 Hit
Points.
POUCH (5 SP)
A Pouch holds up to 6 pounds within one-fifth of a
cubic foot.
PRIEST'S PACK (33 GP)
A Priest's Pack contains the following items: Backpack, Blanket, Holy Water, Lamp, 7 days of Rations,
Robe, and Tinderbox.
QUIVER (1 GP)
A Quiver holds up to 20 Arrows.
RAM , PORTABLE (4 GP)
You can use a Portable Ram to break down doors.
When doing so, you gain a +4 bonus to the Strength
check. One other character can help you use the
ram, giving you Advantage on this check.
RATIONS (5 SP)
Rations consist of travel-ready food, including jerky,
dried fruit, hardtack, and nuts. See "Malnutrition"
in the rules glossary for the risks of not eating.
R OBE (1 G P)
A Robe has vocational or ceremonial significance.
Some events and locations admit only people wearing a Robe bearing certain colors or symbols.
228
CH APTE R 6 j EQUI PME NT
ROPE (1 GP)
As a Utilize action, you can tie a knot with Rope if
you succeed on a DC 10 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand)
check. The Rope can be burst with a successful DC
20 Strength (Athletics) check.
You can bind an unwilling creature with the Rope
only if the creature has the Grappled, Incapacitated,
or Restrained condition. If the creature's legs are
bound, the creature has the Restrained condition
until it escapes. Escaping the Rope requires the
creature to make a successful DC 15 Dexterity (Acrobatics) check as an action.
SACK (1 CP)
A Sack holds up to 30 pounds within 1 cubic foot.
SCHOLAR'S PACK (40 GP)
A Scholar's Pack contains the following items: Backpack, Book, Ink, Ink Pen, Lamp, 10 flasks of Oil, 10
sheets of Parchment, and Tinderbox.
SHOVEL (2 GP)
Working for 1 hour, you can use a Shovel to dig
a hole that is 5 feet on each side in soil or similar
material.
SIGNAL WHISTLE (5 CP)
When blown as a Utilize action, a Signal Whistle
produces a sound that can be heard up to 600 feet
away.
SPELL SCROLL (CANTRIP, 30 GP;
LEVEL 1, 50 GP)
A Spell Scroll (Cantrip) or Spell Scroll (Level 1) is a
magic item that bears the words of a cantrip or level
1 spell, respectively, determined by the scroll's creator. If the spell is on your class's spell list, you can
read the scroll and cast the spell using its normal
casting time and without providing any Material
components.
If the spell requires a saving throw or an attack
roll, the spell save DC is 13, and the attack bonus
is +S. The scroll disintegrates when the casting is
completed.
SPIKES, IRON (l G P )
Iron Spikes come in bundles of tr:H. As a Utilize
action, you can use a blunt object. :=,.tch as a Light
Hammer, to hammer a spike into 1No,.,d, earth, or a
similar material. You can do so l~) j. ::J"! a door shut or
to then tie a Rope or Chain to t;1c :-ioi kc.
