# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 325/387

SUMMON FEY
Level 3 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (a gilded flower worth 300+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to l hour
You call forth a Fey spirit. It manifests in an unoccupied space that you can see within range and uses
the Fey Spirit stat block. When you cast the spell,
choose a mood: Fuming, Mirthful, or Tricksy. The
creature resembles a Fey creature of your choice
marked by the chosen mood, which determines certain details in its stat block. The creature disappears
when it drops to O Hit Points or when the spell ends.
The creature is an ally to you and your allies. In
combat, the creature shares your Initiative count,
but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It
obeys your verbal commands (no action required
by you). If you don't issue any, it takes the Dodge
action and uses its movement to avoid danger.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot's
level for the spell's level in the stat block.
SUMMON FIEND
Level 6 Conjuration (Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bloody vial worth 600+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to l hour
You call forth a fiendish spirit. It manifests in an
unoccupied space that you can see within range
and uses the Fiendish Spirit stat block. When you
cast the spell, choose Demon, Devil, or Yugoloth.
,..,-,.c
,.,,. • n-rro 7 I CDl1I IC
Small Fey, Neutral
AC 12 + the spell's level
HP 30 + 10 for each spell level above 3
Speed 30 ft., Fly 30 ft.
MOO SAVE
STR 13 +l
+l
INT 14 +2 +2
MOD SAVE
DEX 16 +3
+3
Wis 11
+O +O
Immunities Charmed
MOO SAVE
CON 14 +2
+2
CHA 16 +3
+3
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 10
Languages Sylvan, understands the languages you
know
CR None (XP O; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus)
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The spirit makes a number of Fey Blade
attacks equal to half this spell's level (round down) .
Fey Blade. Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals your spell
attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: 2d6 + 3 + the spell's
level Force damage.
BONUS ACTIONS
Fey Step. The spirit magically teleports up to 30 feet to
an unoccupied space it can see. Then one of the following effects occurs, based on the spirit's chosen mood:
Fuming. The spirit has Advantage on the next attack roll
it makes before the end of this turn.
Mirthful. Wisdom Saving Throw: DC equals your spell
save DC, one creature the spirit G1t1 see within 10
feet of itself. Failure: The target i5 Charmed by you
and the spirit for l minute or until he target takes
any damage.
Tricksy. The spirit fills a 10-foot Cul,,, ,ithin 5 feet of it
with magical Darkness, which !a" s : rttil the end of its
next turn.
:I
