# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 213/387

IMPROVISED WEAPONS
If you use an object-such as a table leg, frying
pan, or bottle-as a makeshift weapon, see "Im·
provised Weapons" in the rules glossary. Also see
those rules if you wield a weapon in an unusual
way, such as using a Ranged weapon to make a
melee attack.
Light weapon, and you don't add your ability mod·
if1er to the extra attack's damage unless that modi·
fier is negative. For example, you can attack with a
Shortsword in one hand and a Dagger in the other
using the Attack action and a Bonus Action, but you
don't add your Strength or Dexterity modifier to the
damage roll of the Bonus Action unless that modifier is negative.
LOADING
You can fire only one piece of ammunition from a
Loading weapon when you use an action, a Bonus
Action, or a Reaction to fire it, regardless of the
number of attacks you can normally make.
RANGE
A Range weapon has a range in parentheses after
the Ammunition or Thrown property. The range
lists two numbers. The first is the weapon's normal
range in feet, and the second is the weapon's long
range. When attacking a target beyond normal
range, you have Disadvantage on the attack roll.
You can't attack a target beyond the long range.
REACH
A Reach weapon adds 5 feet to your reach when you
attack with it, as well as when determining your
reach for Opportunity Attacks with it.
THROWN
If a weapon has the Thrown property, you can
throw the weapon to make a ranged attack, and
you can draw that weapon as part of the attack. If
the weapon is a Melee weapon, use the same ability
modifier for the attack and damage rolls that you
use for a melee attack with that weapon.
Two - HANDED
A Two-Handed weapon requires two hands when
you attack with it.
VERSATILE
A Versatile weapon can be used with one or two
hands. A damage value in parentheses appears with
the property. The weapon deals that damage when
used with two hands to make a melee attack.
CH APT ER 6 I EQUI PME NT
MASTERY PROPERTIE S
Each weapon has a mastery property, which is usable only by a character who has a featu re, such as
Weapon Mastery, that unlocks the property for the
character. The properties are defined below.
CLEAVE
If you hit a creature with a melee attack roll using
this weapon, you can make a melee attack roll with
the weapon against a second creature within 5 feet
of the first that is also within your reach. On a hit,
the second creature takes the weapon's damage,
but don't add your ability modifier to that damage
unless that modifier is negative. You can make this
extra attack only once per turn.
GRAZE
If your attack roll with this weapon misses a creature, you can deal damage to that creature equal to
the ability modifier you used to make the attack roll.
This damage is the same type dealt by the weapon,
and the damage can be increased only by increasing
the ability modifier.
NICK
When you make the extra attack of the Light prop·
erty, you can make it as part of the Attack action instead of as a Bonus Action. You can make this extra
attack only once per turn.
PUSH
If you hit a creature with this weapon, you can push
the creature up to 10 feet straight away from yourself if it is Large or smaller.
SAP
If you hit a creature with this weapon, that creature
has Disadvantage on its next attack roll before the
start of your next turn.
SLOW
If you hit a creature with this weapon and deal
damage to it, you can reduce its Speed by 10 feet until the start of your next turn. If the creature is hit
more than once by weapons that have this property,
the Speed reduction doesn't exceed 10 feet.
TOPPLE
If you hit a creature with this weapon, you can
force the creature to make a Constitution saving
throw (DC 8 plus the ability modifier used to make
the attack roll and your Proficiency Bonus). On a
failed save, the creature has the P, one condition.
VEX
If you hit a creature with this ver,pon and deal
damage to the creature, you have Ad•1:rntage on
your next attack roll against tha! crc.:· t ure before
the end of your next turn.
