# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 338/387

WALL O F I C E
Level 6 Evocation (Wizard)
casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
components: V, S, M (a piece of quartz)
Duration: Concentration , up to 10 minutes
You create a wall of ice on a solid surface within
range. You can form it into a hemispherical dome
or a globe with a radius of up to 10 feet, or you can
shape a flat surface made up of ten 10-foot-square
panels. Each panel must be contiguous with another
panel. In any form, the wall is 1 foot thick and lasts
for the duration.
If the wall cuts through a creature's space when
it appears, the creature is pushed to one side of the
wall (you choose which side) and makes a Dexterity
saving throw, taking 10d6 Cold damage on a failed
save or half as much damage on a successful one.
The wall is an object that can be damaged and
thus breached. It has AC 12 and 30 Hit Points per
10-foot section, and it has Immunity to Cold, Poison, and Psychic damage and Vulnerability to Fire
damage. Reducing a 10-foot section of wall to O Hit
Points destroys it and leaves behind a sheet of frigid
air in the space the wall occupied.
A creature moving through the sheet of frigid air
for the first time on a turn makes a Constitution
saving throw, taking Sd6 Cold damage on a failed
save or half as much damage on a successful one.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage the
wall deals when it appears increases by 2d6 and the
damage from passing through the sheet of frigid air
increases by ld6 for each spell slot level above 6.
WALL O F STO NE
Level 5 Evocation (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a cube of granite)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
A nonmagical wall of solid stone springs into existence at a point you choose within range. The wall
is 6 inches thick and is composed of ten 10-foot-by-
10-foot panels. Each panel must be contiguous with
another panel. Alternatively, you can create 10-footby-20 -foot panels that are only 3 inches thick.
If the wall cuts through a creature's space when
it appears, the creature is pushed to one side of the
wall (yo 1: <:h oose w hich side). If a creature would
be surro uuded on all sides by the wall (or the wall
and anotn~·r solid surface), that creature can make
a Dexterity saving throw. On a success, it can use
its Reaction to move up to its Speed so that it is no
longer enclosed by the wall.
T?e wall can have any shape you desire, though it
cant occupy the same space as a creature or object.
The wall doesn't need to be vertical or rest on a firm
foundation. It must, however, merge with and be
solidly supported by existing stone. Thus, you can
use this spell to bridge a chasm or create a ramp.
If you create a span greater than 20 feet in length,
you must halve the size of each panel to create supports. You can crudely shape the wall to create battlements and the like.
The wall is an object made of stone that can be
damaged and thus breached. Each panel has AC 15
and 30 Hit Points per inch of thickness, and it has
Immunity to Poison and Psychic damage. Reducing
a panel to O Hit Points destroys it and might cause
connected panels to collapse at the DM's discretion.
If you maintain your Concentration on this spell
for its full duration, the wall becomes permanent
and can't be dispelled. Otherwise, the wall disappears when the spell ends.
W ALL OF T HORNS
Level 6 Conjuration (Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a handful of thorns)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You create a wall of tangled brush bristling with
needle-sharp thorns. The wall appears within range
on a solid surface and lasts for the duration. You
choose to make the wall up to 60 feet long, 10 feet
high, and 5 feet thick or a circle that has a 20-foot
diameter and is up to 20 feet high and 5 feet thick.
The wall blocks line of sight.
When the wall appears, each creature in its area
makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 7d8 Piercing damage on a failed save or half as much damage
on a successful one.
A creature can move through the wall, albeit
slowly and painfully. For every 1 foot a creature
moves through the wall, it must spend 4 feet of
movement. Furthermore, the first time a creature
enters a space in the wall on a turn or ends its turn
there, the creature makes a Dexterity saving throw,
taking 7d8 Slashing damage on a failed save or half
as much damage on a successful one. A creature
makes this save only once per turn.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Both types of damage increase by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 6.
CHA PTER 7 I SPELLS
39
