# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 340/387

W EIRD
Level 9 Illusion (Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You try to create illusory terrors in others' minds.
Each creature of your choice in a 30-foot-radius
Sphere centered on a point within range makes a
Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, a target
takes lOdlO Psychic damage and has the Frightened
condition for the duration. On a successful save, a
target takes half as much damage only.
A Frightened target makes a Wisdom saving
throw at the end of each of its turns. On a failed
save, it takes SdlO Psychic damage. On a successful
save, the spell ends on that target.
WIND WALK
Level 6 Transmutation (Druid)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a candle)
Duration: 8 hours
You and up to ten willing creatures of your choice
within range assume gaseous forms for the duration, appearing as wisps of cloud. While in this
cloud form, a target has a Fly Speed of 300 feet and
can hover; it has Immunity to the Prone condition;
and it has Resistance to Bludgeoning, Piercing, and
Slashing damage. The only actions a target can take
in this form are the Dash action or a Magic action to
begin reverting to its normal form. Reverting takes
1 minute, during which the target has the Stunned
condition. Until the spell ends, the target can revert
to cloud form, which also requires a Magic action
followed by a 1-minute transformation.
If a target is in cloud form and flying when the effect ends, the target descends 60 feet per round for
1 minute until it lands, which it does safely. If it can't
land after 1 minute, it falls the remaining distance.
W IND WALL
Level 3 Evocation (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a fan and a feather)
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
A wall of strong wind rises from the ground at a
point you choose within range. You can make the
wall up to 50 feet long, 15 feet high, and 1 foot thick.
You can shape the wall in any way you choose so
long as it makes one continuous path along the
ground. The wall lasts for the duration.
When the wall appears, each creature in its area
makes a Strength saving throw, taking 4d8 Bludgeoning damage on a failed save or half as much
damage on a successful one.
The strong wind keeps fog, smoke, and other
gases at bay. Small or smaller flying creatures or
objects can't pass through the wall. Loose, lightweight materials brought into the wall fly upward.
Arrows, bolts, and other ordinary projectiles
launched at targets behind the wall are deflected
upward and miss automatically. Boulders hurled by
Giants or siege engines, and similar projectiles, are
unaffected. Creatures in gaseous form can't pass
through it.
v ---
WISH
Level 9 Conjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Wish is the mightiest spell a mortal can cast. By simply speaking aloud, you can alter reality itself.
The basic use of this spell is to duplicate any other
spell of level 8 or lower. If you use it this way, you
don't need to meet any requirements to cast that
spell, including costly components. The spell simply
takes effect.
Alternatively, you can create one of the following
effects of your choice:
Object Creation. You create one object of up to
25,000 GP in value that isn't a magic item. The
object can be no more than 300 feet in any dimension, and it appears in an unoccupied space
that you can see on the ground.
Instant Health. You allow yourself and up to
twenty creatures that you can see to regain all Hit
Points, and you end all effects on them listed in
the Greater Restoration spell.
Resistance. You grant up to ten creatures that you
can see Resistance to one damage type that you
choose. This Resistance is permanent.
Spell Immunity. You grant up to ten creatures you
can see immunity to a single spell or other magical effect for 8 hours.
Sudden Learning. You replace one of your feats
with another feat for which you are eligible. You
lose all the benefits of the old feat and gain the
benefits of the new one. You can't replace a feat
that is a prerequisite for any of your other feats or
features.
Cr!APTER 7 I SPELt.S
'2'1.T
