# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 283/387

HASTE
Level 3 Transmutation (Sorcerer~ Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a shaving of licorice root)
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
Choose a willing creature that you can see within
range. Until the spell ends, the target's Speed is
doubled, it gains a +2 bonus to Armor Class, it has
Advantage on Dexterity saving throws, and it gains
an additional action on each of its turns. That action can be used to take only the Attack (one attack
only), Dash, Disengage, Hide, or Utilize action.
When the spell ends, the target is Incapacitated
and has a Speed of O until the end of its next turn,
as a wave of lethargy washes over it.
HEAL
Level 6 Abjuration (Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Choose a creature that you can see within range.
Positive energy washes through the target, restoring 70 Hit Points. This spell also ends the Blinded,
Deafened, and Poisoned conditions on the target.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing increases by 10 for each spell slot level above 6.
H EALING WORD
Level 1 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
A creature of your choice that you can see within
range regains Hit Points equal to 2d4 plus your
spellcasting ability modifier.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing increases by 2d4 for each spell slot level above 1.
HEAT METAL
Level 2 Transmutation (Bard, Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a piece of iron and a flame)
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
Choose a manufactured metal object, such as a
metal weapon or a suit of Heavy or Medium metal
284
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
armor, that you can see w ithin ran r;e. You cause
the object to glow red-hot. Any creat :..11·e in physical
contact with the object takes 2d8 Fire da mage wh
you cast the spell. Until the spell ends, you can tak:n
a Bonus Action on each of your later t u rns to deal
this damage again if the object is within range.
If a creature is holding or wearing t he object and
takes the damage from it, the creature must succeed
on a Constitution sav ing th row or drop the object if
it can. If it doesn't drop the object, it has Disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks until the start
of your next turn.
Using a Higlter-Level Spell Slot. The da mage increases by ld8 for each spell slot level above 2.
HELLISH R EBUKE
Level 1 Evocation (Wad ock)
Casting Time: Reaction , which yo u ta ke in res ponse
to taki ng damage from a creature that you can see
withi n 60 feet of yourself
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instanta neous
The creature that damaged you is momentarily surrounded by green flames. It makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 2d10 Fire damage on a failed save
or half as much damage on a successful one.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage increases by ldlO for each spell slot level above 1.
HEROES' F EAST
Level 6 Conjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a gem-encrusted bowl worth
l ,000+ GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
You conjure a feast that appears on a surface in
an unoccupied 10-foot Cube next to you. The feast
takes 1 hour to consume and disappears at the end
of that time, and the beneficial effects don't set in
until this hour is over. Up to twelve creatures can
partake of the feast.
A creature th at partakes gains several benefits,
which last for 24 hours. The creature has Resistance to Poison damage, and it has Immunity to the
Frightened and Poisoned conditions. Its Hit Point
maximum also increases by 2d10, and it gains the
same number of Hit Points.
