# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 86/387

LEVEL 6: IMPROVED CIRCLE FORMS
While in a Wild Shape form, you gain the following
benefits.
Lunar Radiance. Each of your attacks in a Wild
Shape form can deal its normal damage type or Radiant damage. You make this choice each time you
hit with those attacks.
Increased Toughness. You can add your Wisdom
modifier to your Constitution saving throws.
LEVEL 10: MOONLIGHT STEP
You magically transport yourself, reappearing amid
a burst of moonlight. As a Bonus Action, you teleport up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space you can
see, and you have Advantage on the next attack roll
you make before the end of this turn.
You can use this feature a number of times equal
to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of once), and
you regain all expended uses when you finish a
Long Rest. You can also regain uses by expending
a level 2+ spell slot for each use you want to restore
(no action required).
LEVEL14:LUNARFORM
The power of the moon suffuses you, granting you
the following benefits.
Improved Lunar Radiance. Once per turn, you can
deal an extra 2d10 Radiant damage to a target you
hit with a Wild Shape form's attack.
Shared Moonlight. Whenever you use Moonlight
Step, you can also teleport one willing creature.
That creature must be within 10 feet of you, and
you teleport it to an unoccupied space you can see
within 10 feet of your destination space.
CIRCLE OF THE SEA
Become One with Tides and Storms
Druids of the Circle of the Sea draw on the tempestuous forces of oceans and storms. Some view
themselves as embodiments of nature's wrath, seeking vengeance against those who despoil nature.
Others seek mystical unity with nature by attuning
themselves to the ebb and flow of the tides, following the rush of currents and waves and listening to
the inscrutable whispers and roars of the winds.
LEVEL 3: CIRCLE OF THE SEA SPELLS
When you reach a Druid level specified in the Circle
of the Sea Spells table, you thereafter always have
the listed spells prepared.
CIRCLE OF THE SEA SPELLS
Druid Level
Prepared Spells
3
Fog Cloud, Gust of Wind, Ray of Frost,
Shatter, Thunderwave
5
Lightning Bolt, Water Breathing
7
9
Control Water, Ice Storm
Conjure Elemental, Hold Monster
LEVEL 3: WRATH OF THE SEA
As a Bonus Action, you can expend a use of your
Wild Shape to manifest a 5-foot Emanation that
takes the form of ocean spray that surrounds you
for 10 minutes. It ends early if you dismiss it (no
action required), manifest it again, or have the Incapacitated condition.
When you manifest the Emanation and as a Bonus
Action on your subsequent turns, you can choose
another creature you can see in the Emanation. The
target must succeed on a Constitution saving throw
against your spell save DC or take Cold damage and,
if the creature is Large or smaller, be pushed up to
15 feet away from you. To determine this damage,
roll a number of d6s equal to your Wisdom modifier
(minimum of one die).
LEVEL 6: AQUATIC AFFINITY
The size of the Emanation created by your Wrath of
the Sea increases to 10 feet.
In addition, you gain a Swim Speed equal to your
Speed.
LEVEL 10: STORMBORN
Your Wrath of the Sea confers two more benefits
while active, as detailed below.
Flight. You gain a Fly Speed equal to your Speed.
Resistance. You have Resistance to Cold, Lightning, and Thunder damage.
CH APTE R 3 I CHARACTER CLASS ES
87
