# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 270/387

FABRIC AT E
Level 4 Transmutation (Wizard)
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: 120 feet
components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You convert raw materials into products of the
same material. For example, you can fabricate a
wooden bridge from a clump of trees, a rope from a
patch of hemp, or clothes from flax or wool.
Choose raw materials that you can see within
range. You can fabricate a Large or smaller object
(contained within a 10-foot Cube or eight connected
S-foot Cubes) given a sufficient quantity of material. If you're working with metal, stone, or another
mineral substance, however, the fabricated object
can be no larger than Medium (contained within a
5-foot Cube). The quality of any fabricated objects is
based on the quality of the raw materials.
Creatures and magic items can't be created by
this spell. You also can't use it to create items that
require a high degree of skill-such as weapons and
armor-unless you have proficiency with the type of
Artisan's Tools used to craft such objects.
··_,,.. --
FAERIE FIRE
Level 1 Evocation (Bard, Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
Objects in a 20-foot Cube within range are outlined in blue, green, or violet light (your choice).
Each creature in the Cube is also outlined if it fails
a Dexterity saving throw. For the duration, objects
and affected creatures shed Dim Light in a 10-foot
radius and can't benefit from the Invisible condition.
Attack rolls against an affected creature or object
have Advantage if the attacker can see it.
FALSE LI FE
Level 1 Necromancy (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a drop of alcohol)
Duration: Instantaneous
You gain 2d4 + 4 Temporary Hit Points.
Using c, :w~;J,er-Level Spell Slot. You gain 5 additional Tem1nrary Hit Points for each spell slot level
above 1.
FEAR
Level 3 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a white feather)
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
Each creature in a 30-foot Cone must succeed on a
Wisdom saving throw or drop whatever it is holding
and have the Frightened condition for the duration.
A Frightened creature takes the Dash action and
moves away from you by the safest route on each
of its turns unless there is nowhere to move. If the
creature ends its turn in a space where it doesn't
have line of sight to you, the creature makes a Wisdom saving throw. On a successful save, the spell
ends on that creature.
---·-------
FEATHER FALL
Level 1 Transmutation (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Reaction, which you take when you or a
creature you can see within 60 feet of you falls
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, M (a small feather or piece of down)
Duration: l minute
Choose up to five falling creatures within range. A
falling creature's rate of descent slows to 60 feet per
round until the spell ends. If a creature lands before
the spell ends, the creature takes no damage from
the fall, and the spell ends for that creature.
FEIGN DEATH
Level 3 Necromancy (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of graveyard dirt)
Duration: l hour
You touch a willing creature and put it into a cataleptic state that is indistinguishable from death.
For the duration, the target appears dead to outward inspection and to spells used to determine the
target's status. The target has the Blinded and Incapacitated conditions, and its Speed is 0.
The target also has Resistance to all damage except Psychic damage, and it has Immunity to the
Poisoned condition.
CHA PTER 7 I SPELLS
271
