# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 13/387

SKILLS
Example Uses
Skill
Ability
Acrobatics
Dexterity
Stay on your feet in a tricky situation, or perform an acrobatic stunt.
Animal Handling
Arcana
Wisdom
Intelligence
Calm or train an animal, or get an animal to behave in a certain way.
Recall lore about spells, magic items, and the planes of existence.
Athletics
Deception
Strength
Charisma
Jump farther than normal, stay afloat in rough water, or break something.
Tell a convincing lie, or wear a disguise convincingly.
History
Insight
Intelligence
Wisdom
Recall lore about historical events, people, nations, and cultures .
Discern a person's mood and intentions.
Intimidation
Charisma
Awe or threaten someone into doing what you want.
Investigation
Medicine
Intelligence
Wisdom
Find obscure information in books, or deduce how something works.
Diagnose an illness, or determine what killed the recently slain.
Nature
Intelligence
Recall lore about terrain, plants, animals, and weather.
Perception
Performance
Wisdom
Charisma
Using a combination of senses, notice something that's easy to miss.
Act, tell a story, perform music, or dance.
Persuasion
Religion
Charisma
Intelligence
Honestly and graciously convince someone of something.
Recall lore about gods, religious rituals, and holy symbols.
Sleight of Hand
Stealth
Dexterity
Dexterity
Pick a pocket, conceal a handheld object, or perform legerdemain.
Escape notice by moving quietly and hiding behind things.
Survival
Wisdom
Follow tracks, forage, find a trail, or avoid natural hazards.
that skill but doesn't add its Proficiency Bonus. For
example, if a character tries to climb a cliff, the DM
might ask for a Strength (Athletics) check. If the
character has Athletics proficiency, the character
adds their Proficiency Bonus to the Strength check.
If the character lacks that proficiency, they make
the check without adding their Proficiency Bonus.
SKILL LIST
The skills are shown on the Skills table, which notes
example uses for each skill proficiency as well as the
ability check the skill most often applies to.
DETERMINING SKILLS
A character's starting skill proficiencies are determined at character creation, and a monster's skill
proficiencies appear in its stat block.
SKILLS WITH DIFFERENT ABILITIES
Each skill proficiency is associated with an ability check. For example, the Intimidation skill is
associated with Charisma. In some situations,
the DM might allow you to apply your skill proficiency to a different ability check. For example, if
a character tries to intimidate someone through a
show of physical strength, the DM might ask for
a Strength (Intimidation) check rather than a Charisma (Intimidation) check. That character would
make a Strength check and add their Proficiency
Bonus if they have Intimidation proficiency.
14,
CHAPTER 1 I PLAYI NG T HE GAME
SAVING THROW PROFICIENCIES
Proficiency in a saving throw lets a character add
their Proficiency Bonus to saves that use a particular ability. For example, proficiency in Wisdom
saves lets you add your Proficiency Bonus to your
Wisdom saves. Some monsters also have saving
throw proficiencies, as noted in their stat blocks.
Each class gives proficiency in at least two saving
throws, representing that class's training in evading
or resisting certain threats. Wizards, for example,
are proficient in Intelligence and Wisdom saves;
they train to resist mental assault.
EQUIPMENT PROFICIENCIES
A character gains proficiency with various weapons
and tools from their class and background. There
are two categories of equipment proficiency:
Weapons. Anyone can wield a weapon, but proficiency makes you better at wielding it. If you have
proficiency with a weapon, you add your Proficiency Bonus to attack rolls you make with it.
Tools. If you have proficiency with a tool, you can
add your Proficiency Bonus to any ability check
you make that uses the tool. If you have Proficiency in the skill that's also used with that check,
you have Advantage on the check too. This means
you can benefit from both skill proficiency and
tool proficiency on the same ability check.
