# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 102/387

L ~- n .. 3: :tv1o:,· ;_, .~_' u P, Cl.ASS
Yo:. ga in a Mon k subclass of your choice. The
Wa ;·rior of Mercy, Warrior of Shadow, Warrior of
the Elements, and Warrior of the Open Hand subclasses are detailed after this class's description. A
subclass is a specialization that grants you features
at certain Monk levels. For the rest of your career,
you gain each of your subclass's features that are of
your Monk level or lower.
LEVEL 4: ABILITY SCORE IMPROVEMENT
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see
chapter S) or another feat of your choice for which
you qualify. You gain this feature again at Monk
levels 8, 12, and 16.
LEVEL 4: SLOW FALL
You can take a Reaction when you fall to reduce any
damage you take from the fall by an amount equal
to five times your Monk level.
LEVEL 5: EXTRA ATTACK
You can attack twice instead of once whenever you
take the Attack action on your turn.
LEVEL 5: STUNNING STRIKE
Once per turn when you hit a creature with a Monk
weapon or an Unarmed Strike, you can expend 1
Focus Point to attempt a stunning strike. The target
must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed
save, the target has the Stunned condition until the
start of your next turn. On a successful save, the
target's Speed is halved until the start of your next
turn, and the next attack roll made against the target before then has Advantage.
LEVEL 6: EMPOWERED STRIKES
Whenever you deal damage with your Unarmed
Strike, it can deal your choice of Force damage or
its normal damage type.
L EVEL 7: EVASION
When you're subjected to an effect that allows you
to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half
damage, you instead take no damage if you succeed
on the saving throw and only half damage if you
fail.
You don't benefit from this feature if you have the
Incapacitated condition.
L EV EL 9: A CROBATIC MOVEMENT
While you aren't wearing armor or wielding a
Shield, you gain the ability to move along vertical
surfaces and across liquids on your turn without
falling during the movement.
LEVEL 10: HEIGHTENED Focus
Your Flurry of Blows, Patient Defense, and Step of
the Wind gain the following benefits.
Flurry of Blows. You can expend 1 Focus Point
to use Flurry of Blows and make three Unarmed
Strikes with it instead of two.
Patient Defense. When you expend a Focus Point
to use Patient Defense, you gain a number of Temporary Hit Points equal to two rolls of your Martial
Arts die.
Step of the Wind. When you expend a Focus Point
to use Step of the Wind, you can choose a willing
creature within 5 feet of yourself that is Large or
smaller. You move the creature with you until the
end of your turn. The creature's movement doesn't
provoke Opportunity Attacks.
LEVEL 10: SELF-RESTORATION
Through sheer force of will, you can remove one
of the following conditions from yourself at the
end of each of your turns: Charmed, Frightened, or
Poisoned.
In addition, forgoing food and drink doesn't give
you levels of Exhaustion.
LEVEL 13: DEFLECT ENERGY
You can now use your Deflect Attacks feature
against attacks that deal any damage type, not just
Bludgeoning, Piercing, or Slashing.
LEVEL 14: DISCIPLINED SURVIVOR
Your physical and mental discipline grant you proficiency in all saving throws.
Additionally, whenever you make a saving throw
and fail, you can expend 1 Focus Point to reroll it,
and you must use the new roll.
LEVEL 15: PERFECT Focus
When you roll Initiative and don't use Uncanny Metabolism, you regain expended Focus Points until
you have 4 if you have 3 or fewer.
LEVEL 18: SUPERIOR DEFENSE
At the start of your turn, you can expend 3 Focus
Points to bolster yourself against harm for 1 minute or until you have the Incapacitated condition.
During that time, you have Resistance to all damage
except Force damage.
LEVEL 19: EPIC BOON
You gain an Epic Boon feat (see chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which you qualify.
Boon of Irresistible Offense is recommended.
LEVEL 20: BODY AND MIND
You have developed your body and mind to new
heights. Your Dexterity and Wisdom scores increase
by 4, to a maximum of 25.
CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES
103
