# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 124/387

LEVE :. ~-, BEGU II.ING TWIST
The magic of the Feywild guards your mind. You
have Advantage on saving throws to avoid or end
the Charmed or Frightened condition.
In addition, whenever you or a creature you can
see within 120 feet of you succeeds on a saving
throw to avoid or end the Charmed or Frightened
condition, you can take a Reaction to force a different creature you can see within 120 feet of yourself
to make a Wisdom save against your spell save DC.
On a failed save, the target is Charmed or Frightened (your choice) for 1 minute. The target repeats
the save at the end of each of its turns, ending the
effect on itself on a success.
L EVEL 11: FEY REIN F ORCEMENTS
You can cast Summon Fey without a Material component. You can also cast it once without a spell
slot, and you regain the ability to cast it in this way
when you finish a Long Rest.
Whenever you start casting the spell, you can
modify it so that it doesn't require Concentration. If
you do so, the spell's duration becomes 1 minute for
that casting.
L EVEL 15: M I STY W A NDERER
You can cast Misty Step without expending a spell
slot. You can do so a number of times equal to your
Wisdom modifier (minimum of once), and you regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.
In addition, whenever you cast Misty Step, you can
bring along one willing creature you can see within
5 feet of yourself. That creature teleports to an unoccupied space of your choice within 5 feet of your
destination space.
GLOOM STA LKER
Draw on Shadow Magic to Fight Your Foes
Gloom Stalkers are at home in the darkest places,
wielding magic drawn from the Shadowfell to combat enemies that lurk in darkness.
L EVEL 3: DREAD AMBUSHER
You have mastered the art of creating fearsome ambushes, granting you the following benefits.
Ambusher's Leap. At the start of your first turn of
each combat, your Speed increases by 10 feet until
the end of that turn.
Dreadful Strike. When you attack a creature and
hit it with a weapon, you can deal an extra 2d6 Psychic damage. You can use this benefit only once per
turn, you can use it a number of times equal to your
Wisdom modifier {minimum of once), and you regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.
Initiative Bonus. When you roll Initiative, you can
add your Wisdom modifier to the roll.
