# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 267/387

ELEMENTAL WEAPON
Level 3 Transmutation (Druid, Paladin, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to l hour
A nonmagical weapon you touch becomes a magic
weapon. Choose one of the following damage types:
Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Thunder. For the duration, the weapon has a +1 bonus to attack rolls and
deals an extra ld4 damage of the chosen type when
it hits.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. If you use a level
5-6 spell slot, the bonus to attack rolls increases to
+2, and the extra damage increases to 2d4. If you
use a level 7+ spell slot, the bonus increases to +3,
and the extra damage increases to 3d4.
ENHANCE ABILITY
Level 2 Transmutation (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Ranger,
Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (fur or a feather)
Duration: Concentration, up to l hour
You touch a creature and choose Strength, Dexterity, Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma. For the
duration, the target has Advantage on ability checks
using the chosen ability.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one
additional creature for each spell slot level above 2.
You can choose a different ability for each target.
ENLARGE/R EDUCE
Level 2 Transmutation (Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of powdered iron)
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
For the duration, the spell enlarges or reduces a
creature or an object you can see within range (see
the chosen effect below). A targeted object must
be neither worn nor carried. If the target is an unwilling creature, it can make a Constitution saving
throw. On a successful save, the spell has no effect.
Everything that a targeted creature is wearing
and carrying changes size with it. Any item it drops
returns to normal size at once. A thrown weapon or
piece of ammunition returns to normal size immediately after it hits or misses a target.
CH A PTER 7 I SPE Li.~
Enlarge. The target's size increase.-; by one category- from Medium to Large, fo1· example. The
target also has Advantage on Strength checks and
Strength saving throws. The target's attacks with
its enlarged weapons or Unarmed Strikes deal an
extra ld4 damage on a hit.
Reduce. The target's size decreases by one category- from Medium to Small, for example. The target also has Disadvantage on Strength checks and
Strength saving throws. The target's attacks with
its reduced weapons or Unarmed Strikes deal ld4
less damage on a hit (this can't reduce the damage
below 1).
ENSNARING S T RIK E
Level 1 Conjuration (Ranger)
Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immediately after hitting a creature with a weapon
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
As you hit the target, grasping vines appear on it
and it makes a Strength saving throw. A Large 0 ;
larger creature has Advantage on this save. On a
failed save, the target has the Restrained condition
until the spell ends. On a successful save, the vines
shrivel away, and the spell ends.
While Restrained, the target takes ld6 Piercing
damage at the start of each of its turns. The target
or a creature within reach of it can take an action to
make a Strength (Athletics) check against your spell
save DC. On a success, the spell ends.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage increases by ld6 for each spell slot level above 1.
ENTANGLE
Level 1 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
Grasping plants sprout from the ground in a 20-foot
square within range. For the duration, these plants
turn the ground in the area into Difficult Terrain.
They disappear when the spell ends.
Each creature (other than you) in the area when
you cast the spell must succeed on a Strength saving throw or have the Restrained condition until the
spell ends. A Restrained creature can take an action
to make a Strength (Athletics) check against your
spell save DC. On a success, it frees itself from the
grasping plants and is 1 o longer Restrained by them.
