# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 303/387

PHANTASMAL FORCE
Level 2 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bit of fleece)
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
You attempt to craft an illusion in the mind of
a creature you can see within range. The target
makes an Intelligence saving throw. On a failed
save, you create a phantasmal object, creature, or
other phenomenon that is no larger than a 10-foot
Cube and that is perceivable only to the target for
the duration. The phantasm includes sound, temperature, and other stimuli.
The target can take a Study action to examine the
phantasm with an Intelligence (Investigation) check
against your spell save DC. If the check succeeds,
the target realizes that the phantasm is an illusion,
and the spell ends.
While affected by the spell, the target treats the
phantasm as if it were real and rationalizes any illogical outcomes from interacting with it. For example, if the target steps through a phantasmal bridge
and survives the fall, it believes the bridge exists
and something else caused it to fall.
An affected target can even take damage from
the illusion if the phantasm represents a dangerous
creature or hazard. On each of your turns, such a
phantasm can deal 2d8 Psychic damage to the target if it is in the phantasm's area or within 5 feet of
the phantasm. The target perceives the damage as a
type appropriate to the illusion.
PHANTASMAL KILLER
Level 4 Illusion (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
You tap into the nightmares of a creature you can
see within range and create an illusion of its deepest
fears, visible only to that creature. The target makes
a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target
takes 4d10 Psychic damage and has Disadvantage
on ability checks and attack rolls for the duration.
On a successful save, the target takes half as much
damage, and the spell ends.
For the duration, the target makes a Wisdom saving throw at the end of each of its turns. On a failed
save, it takes the Psychic damage again. On a successful save, the spell ends.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage increases by ld10 for each spell slot level above 4.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
PHANTOM STEED
Level 3 Illusion (Wizard)
Casting Time: l minute or Ritual
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: l hour
p,..,,. NTOM Sn, e:o
A Large, quasi-real, horselike creature appears on
the ground in an unoccupied space of your choice
within range. You decide the creature's appearance,
and it is equipped with a saddle, bit, and bridle. Any
of the equipment created by the spell vanishes in a
puff of smoke if it is carried more than 10 feet away
from the steed.
For the duration, you or a creature you choose
can ride the steed. The steed uses the Riding Horse
stat block (see appendix B), except it has a Speed of
100 feet and can travel 13 miles in an hour. When
the spell ends, the steed gradually fades, giving the
rider 1 minute to dismount. The spell ends early if
the steed takes any damage.
PLANAR ALLY
Level 6 Conjuration (Cleric)
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You beseech an otherworldl.' entity for aid. The
being must be known toy ,~1: a god, a demon prince,
or some other being of cosmir f0~.-,cr. That entity
