# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 159/387

LEVEL 14: BEWITCHING M AG I C
Your patron grants you the ability to weave your
magic with teleportation. Immediately after you
cast an Enchantment or Illusion spell using an action and a spell slot, you can cast Misty Step as part
of the same action and without expending a spell
slot.
CELESTIAL PATRON
Call on the Powe,· of the Heavens
Your pact draws on the Upper Planes, the realms
of everlasting bliss. You might enter an agreement
with an empyrean, a couatl, a sphinx, a unicorn,
or another heavenly entity. Or you might call on
numerous such beings as you pursue goals aligned
with theirs. Your pact allows you to experience a
hint of the holy light that illuminates the multiverse.
LEVEL 3: CELESTIAL SPELLS
The magic of your patron ensures you always have
certain spells ready; when you reach a Warlock level
specified in the Celestial Spells table, you thereafter
always have the listed spells prepared.
CELESTIAL SPELLS
Warlock Level Spells
3
Aid, Cure Wounds, Guiding Bolt,
Lesser Restoration, Light,
Sacred Flame
5
Daylight, Revivify
7
Guardian of Faith, Wall of Fire
9
Greater Restoration,
Summon Celestial
LEVEL 3: HEALING LIGHT
You gain the ability to channel celestial energy to
heal wounds. You have a pool of d6s to fuel this
healing. The number of dice in the pool equals 1 plus
your Warlock level.
As a Bonus Action, you can heal yourself or one
creature you can see within 60 feet of yourself,
expending dice from the pool. The maximum number of dice you can expend at once equals your
Charisma modifier (minimum of one die). Roll the
dice you expend, and restore a number of Hit Points
equal to the rail's total. Your pool regains all expended dice when you finish a Long Rest.
LEVEL 6: RADIANT SOUL
Your link to your patron allows you to serve as a
conduit for radiant energy. You have Resistance to
Radiant damage. Once per turn, when a spell you
cast deals Radiant or Fire damage, you can add your
Charisma modifier to that spell's da age against
one of the spell's targets.
