# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 376/387

T, E M ORSE NSE
A creature with Tremorsense can pinpoint the
location of creatures and moving objects within
a specific range, provided that the creature with
Tremorsense and anything it is detecting are both in
contact with the same surface (such as the ground,
a wall, or a ceiling) or the same liquid.
Tremorsense can't detect creatures or objects in
the air, and it doesn't count as a form of sight.
TRUE SIGHT
If you have Truesight, your vision is enhanced
within a specified range. Within that range, your
vision pierces through the following:
Darkness. You can see in normal and magical
Darkness.
Invisibility. You see creatures and objects that have
the Invisible condition.
Visual Illusions. Visual illusions appear transparent to you, and you automatically succeed on saving throws against them.
Transformations. You discern the true form of any
creature or object you see that has been transformed by magic.
Ethereal Plane. You see into the Ethereal Plane. See
also appendix A ("Transitive Planes").
UNARMED STRI KE
Instead of using a weapon to make a melee attack,
you can use a punch, kick, head-butt, or similar
forceful blow. In game terms, this is an Unarmed
Strike-a melee attack that involves you using your
body to damage, grapple, or shove a target within 5
feet of you.
Whenever you use your Unarmed Strike, choose
one of the following options for its effect.
Damage. You make an attack roll against the target. Your bonus to the roll equals your Strength
modifier plus your Proficiency Bonus. On a hit, the
target takes Bludgeoning damage equal to 1 plus
your Strength modifier.
Grapple. The target must succeed on a Strength
or Dexterity saving throw (it chooses which), or it
has the Grappled condition. The DC for the saving
throw and any escape attempts equals 8 plus your
Strength modifier and Proficiency Bonus. This
grapple is possible only if the target is no more than
one size larger than you and if you have a hand free
to grab it. See also "Grappling."
Shove. The target must succeed on a Strength
or Dexterity saving throw (it chooses which), or
you either push it 5 feet away or cause it to have
the Prone condition. The DC for the saving throw
equals 8 plus your Strength modifier and Proficiency Bonus. This shove is possible only if the target is no more than one size larger than you.
----------
UNCONSCIOUS [CONDITION]
While you have the Unconscious condition, you experience the following effects.
Inert. You have the Incapacitated and Prone
conditions, and you drop whatever you're holding.
When this condition ends, you remain Prone.
Speed 0. Your Speed is O and can't increase.
Attacks Affected. Attack rolls against you have
Advantage.
Saving Throws Affected. You automatically fail
Strength and Dexterity saving throws.
Automatic Critical Hits. Any attack roll that hits
you is a Critical Hit if the attacker is within 5 feet of
you.
Unaware. You're unaware of your surroundings.
,-
UNOCCUPIED SPACE
A space is unoccupied if no creatures are in it and it
isn't completely filled by objects.
UTILIZE [ACTION]
You normally interact with an object while doing
something else, such as when you draw a sword as
part of the Attack action. When an object requires
an action for its use, you take the Utilize action.
VULNERABILIT Y
If you have Vulnerability to a damage type, damage
of that type is doubled against you. Vulnerability is
applied only once to an instance of damage. See also
chapter 1 ("Damage and Healing").
r -~·---- --
WEAPON
A weapon is an object that is in the Simple or
Martial weapon category. See also chapter 6
("Weapons").
W EAPON ATTACK
A weapon attack is an attack roll made with a
weapon. See also "Weapon."
APP EN Dl X C I RULES GLOSSARY
