# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 94/387

Commanding Pr·esence. When you make a Charisma ([ntirnidation, Performance, or Persuasion)
check, you can expend one Superiority Die and add
that die to the roll.
Disarming Attack. When you hit a creature with
an attack roll, you can expend one Superiority Die
to attempt to disarm the target. Add the Superiority
Die roll to the attack's damage roll. The target must
succeed on a Strength saving throw or drop one object of your choice that it's holding, with the object
landing in its space.
Distracting Strike. When you hit a creature with
an attack roll, you can expend one Superiority Die
to distract the target. Add the Superiority Die roll
to the attack's damage roll. The next attack roll
against the target by an attacker other than you has
Advantage if the attack is made before the start of
your next turn.
Evasive Footwork. As a Bonus Action, you can
expend one Superiority Die and take the Disengage
action. You also roll the die and add the number
rolled to your AC until the start of your next turn.
Feinting Attack As a Bonus Action, you can expend one Superiority Die to feint, choosing one
creature within 5 feet of yourself as your target.
You have Advantage on your next attack roll
against that target this turn. If that attack hits, add
the Superiority Die to the attack's damage roll.
Goading Attack When you hit a creature with an
attack roll, you can expend one Superiority Die to
attempt to goad the target into attacking you. Add
the Superiority Die to the attack's damage roll. The
target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or
have Disadvantage on attack rolls against targets
other than you until the end of your next turn.
Lunging Attack As a Bonus Action, you can expend one Superiority Die and take the Dash action.
If you move at least 5 feet in a straight line immediately before hitting with a melee attack as part
of the Attack action on this turn, you can add the
Superiority Die to the attack's damage roll.
Maneuvering Attack. When you hit a creature
with an attack roll, you can expend one Superiority
Die to maneuver one of your comrades into another
position. Add the Superiority Die roll to the attack's
damage roll, and choose a willing creature who can
see or hear you. That creature can use its Reaction
to move up to half its Speed without provoking an
Opportunity Attack from the target of your attack.
Menacing Attack. When you hit a creature with
an attack roll, you can expend one Superiority Die
to attempt to frighten the target. Add the Superiority Die to the attack's damage roll. The target
must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have
the Frightened condition until the end of your next
turn.
Parry. When another creature damages you with
a melee attack roll, you can take a Reaction and expend one Superiority Die to reduce the damage by
the number you roll on your Superiority Die plus
your Strength or Dexterity modifier (your choice).
Precision Attack. When you miss with an attack
roll, you can expend one Superiority Die, roll that
die, and add it to the attack roll, potentially causing
the attack to hit.
Pushing Attack. When you hit a creature with an
attack roll using a weapon or an Unarmed Strike,
you can expend one Superiority Die to attempt to
drive the target back. Add the Superiority Die to
the attack's damage roll. If the target is Large or
smaller, it must succeed on a Strength saving throw
or be pushed up to 15 feet directly away from you.
Rally. As a Bonus Action, you can expend one Superiority Die to bolster the resolve of a companion.
Choose an ally of yours within 30 feet of yourself
who can see or hear you. That creature gains Temporary Hit Points equal to the Superiority Die roll
plus half your Fighter level (round down).
Riposte. When a creature misses you with a melee
attack roll, you can take a Reaction and expend one
Superiority Die to make a melee attack roll with a
weapon or an Unarmed Strike against the creature.
If you hit, add the Superiority Die to the attack's
damage.
Sweeping Attack. When you hit a creature with
a melee attack roll using a weapon or an Unarmed
Strike, you can expend one Superiority Die to attempt to damage another creature. Choose another
creature within 5 feet of the original target and
within your reach. If the original attack roll would
hit the second creature, it takes damage equal to the
number you roll on your Superiority Die. The damage is of the same type dealt by the original attack.
Tactical Assessment. When you make an Intelligence (History or Investigation) check or a Wisdom
(Insight) check, you can expend one Superiority Die
and add that die to the ability check.
Trip Attack. When you hit a creature with an
attack roll using a weapon or an Unarmed Strike,
you can expend one Superiority Die and add the die
to the attack's damage roll. If the target is Large or
smaller, it must succeed on a Strength saving throw
or have the Prone condition.
CH APTE R 3 I C H A RACT ER CL.-\SSES
95
