# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 164/387

l ,
.......
CORE W IZARD TR AITS
Primary Ability
Intelligence
Hit Point Die
saving Throw
, Proficiencies
1
Skill Proficiencies
Weapon Proficiencies
Armor Training
Starting Equipment
D6 per Wizard level
Intelligence and Wisdom
Choose 2: Arcana, History,
Insight, Investigation, Medicine, Nature, or Religion
Simple weapons
No ne
Choose A or B: (A) 2 Daggers,
Arcane Focus (Quarterstaff),
Robe, Spellbook, Scholar's
Pack, and 5 GP; or (B) 55 GP
As A MuLTICLASs CHARACTER
I
• Gain the Hit Point Die from the Core Wizard
' I
Traits table.
! I
• Gain the Wizard's level 1 features, which are listed
in the Wizard Features table. See the multiclassing rules in chapter 2 to determine your available
spell slots.
WIZARD CLASS FEATURES
As a Wizard, you gain the following class features
when you reach the specified Wizard levels. These
features are listed in the Wizard Features table.
LEVEL 1: SPELLCASTING
As a student of arcane magic, you have learned to
cast spells. See chapter 7 for the rules on spellcasting. The information below details how you use
l~~==================-======-1 , those rules with Wizard spells, which appear in the
IZARDS ARE DEFINED BY THEIR
/;
exhaustive study of magic's inner work-
•
ings. They cast spells of explosive fire,
arcing lightning, subtle deception, and spectacular
transformations. Their magic conjures monsters
from other planes of existence, glimpses the future,
or forms protective barriers. Their mightiest spells
change one substance into another, call meteors
from the sky, or open portals to other worlds.
Most Wizards share a scholarly approach to
magic. They examine the theoreti~al ~nderpinnings
of magic, particularly the categorization of spells
into schools of magic. Renowned Wizards such as
Bigby, Tasha, Mordenkainen, and Yolande have built
on their studies to invent iconic spells now used
across the multiverse.
The closest a Wizard is likely to come to an ordinary life is working as a sage or lecturer. Other
Wizards sell their services as advisers, serve in military forces, or pursue lives of crime or domination.
But the lure of knowledge calls even the most
unadventurous Wizards from the safety of their
libraries and laboratories and into crumbling ruins and lost cities. Most Wizards believe that their
counterparts in ancient civilizations knew secrets
of magic that have been lost to the ages, and discovering those secrets could unlock the path to a power
greater than any magic available in the present age.
BECOMING A WIZARD ...
As A LEV EL 1 C HARACTER
Gain all the traits in the Core Wizard Traits table.
Gain the vVi:rnrd's level 1 features, which are listed
in the Wizard Features table.
Wizard spell list later in the class's description.
Cantrips. You know three Wizard cantrips of your
choice. Light, Mage Hand, and Ray of Frost are recommended. Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can
replace one of your cantrips from this feature with
another Wizard cantrip of your choice.
When you reach Wizard levels 4 and 10, you learn
another Wizard cantrip of your choice, as shown in
the Cantrips column of the Wizard Features table.
Spellbook. Your wizardly apprenticeship culminated in the creation of a unique book: your
spellbook. lt is a Tiny object that weighs 3 pounds,
contains 100 pages, and can be read only by you or
someone casting Identify. You determine the book's
appearance and materials, such as a gilt-edged tome
or a collection of vellum bound with twine.
The book contains the level 1+ spells you know. It
starts with six level 1 Wizard spells of your choice.
Detect Magic, Feather Fall, Mage Armor, Magic Missile,
Sleep, and Thunderwave are recommended.
Whenever you gain a Wizard level after 1, add
two Wizard spells of your choice to your spellbook.
Each of these spells must be of a level for which you
have spell slots, as shown in the Wizard Features
table. The spells are the culmination of arcane research you do regularly.
Spell Slots. The Wizard Features table shows how
many spell slots you have to cast your level 1+ spells.
You regain all expended slots when you finish a
Long Rest.
Prepared Spells of Level 1+. You prepare the list of
level 1+ spells that are available for you to cast with
this feature. To do so, choose four spells from your
spellbook. The chosen spells must be of a level for
which you have spell slots.
CHAPTE R 3 I CH A RACTER C LASSES
165
