# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 145/387

LEVEL 6: PSIONIC SORCERY
When you cast any level l+ spell from your Psionic
Spells feature, you can cast it by expending a spell
slot as normal or by spending a number of Sorcery
Points equal to the spell's level. If you cast the spell
using Sorcery Points, it requires no Verbal or Somatic components, and it requires no Material components unless they are consumed by the spell or
have a cost specified in it.
LEVEL 6: PSYCHIC DEFENSES
You have Resistance to Psychic damage, and you
have Advantage on saving throws to avoid or end
the Charmed or Frightened condition.
LEVEL 14: REVELATION IN FLESH
You can unleash the aberrant truth hidden within
yourself. As a Bonus Action, you can spend 1 Sorcery Point or more to magically alter your body for
10 minutes. For each Sorcery Point you spend, you
gain one of the following benefits of your choice,
the effects of which last until the alteration ends.
Aquatic Adaptation. You gain a Swim Speed equal
to hvice your Speed, and you can breathe underwater. Gills grow from your neck or flare behind
your ears, and your fingers become webbed or you
grow wriggling cilia.
Glistening Flight. You gain a Fly Speed equal to
your Speed, and you can hover. As you fly, your skin
glistens with mucus or otherworldly light.
See the Invisible. You can see any Invisible creature within 60 feet of yourself that isn't behind
Total Cover. Your eyes also turn black or become
writhing sensory tendrils.
Wormlike Movement. Your body, along with any
equipment you are wearing or carrying, becomes
slimy and pliable. You can move through any space
as narrow as 1 inch, and you can spend 5 feet of
movement to escape from nonmagical restraints or
the Grappled condition.
LEVEL 18: WARPING IMPLOSION
You can unleash a space-warping anomaly. As a
Magic action, you teleport to an unoccupied space
you can see within 120 feet of yourself. Immediately
after you disappear, each creature within 30 feet
of the space you left must make a Strength saving
throw against your spell save DC. On a failed save,
a creature takes 3dl0 Force damage and is pulled
straight toward the space you left, ending in an unoccupied space as close to your former space as possible. On a successful save, the creature takes half as
much damage only.
Once you use this feature, you can't do so again
until you finish a Long Rest unless you spend S Sorcery Points (no action required) to restore your use
of it.
146
CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES
CLOCKWORK SORCERY
Channel Cosmic Forces of Orde,·
The cosmic force of order has suffused you with
magic. That power arises from Mechanus or a realm
like it-a plane of existence shaped entirely by clockwork efficiency. You or someone from your lineage
might have become entangled in the machinations
of modrons, the orderly beings who inhabit Mechanus. Perhaps your ancestor even took part in the
Great Modron March. Whatever its origin within
you, the power of order can seem strange to others,
but for you, it's part of a vast and glorious system.
LEVEL 3: CLOCKWORK SPELLS
When you reach a Sorcerer level specified in the
Clockwork Spells table, you thereafter always have
the listed spells prepared.
CLOCKWORK SPELLS
Sorcerer Level
Spells
3
Aid, Alarm, Lesser Restoration,
Protection from Evil and Good
5
Dispel Magic, Protection from Energy
7
Freedom of Movement, Summon
Construct
9
Greater Restoration, Wall of Force
In addition, consult the Manifestations of Order
table and choose or randomly determine a way your
connection to order manifests while you are casting
any of your Sorcerer spells.
MANIFESTATIONS OF ORDER
ld6
Manifestation
Spectral cogwheels hover behind you.
2
The hands of a clock spin in your eyes.
3
Your skin glows with a brassy sheen.
4
Floating equations and geometric objects
overlay your body.
5
Your Spellcasting Focus temporarily takes the
form of a Tiny clockwork mechanism.
6
The ticking of gears or ringing of a clock can
be heard by you and those affected by your
magic.
L EVEL 3: R ESTORE B A LANCE
Your connection to the plane of absolute order
allows you to equalize chaotic moments. When
a creature you can see within 60 feet < f yourself
is about to roll a d20 with Advantage or Disadvantage, you can take a Reaction to r-rcvent
the roll from being affected by Advanl,,;~e and
Disadvantage.
