# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 251/387

Flee. The target spends its turn moving away from
you by the fastest available means.
Grovel. The target has the Prone condition and
then ends its turn.
Halt. On its turn, the target doesn't move and takes
no action or Bonus Action.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can affect one
additional creature for each spell slot level above 1.
COMMUNE
Level 5 Divination (Cleric)
Casting Time: l minute or Ritual
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (incense)
Duration: l minute
You contact a deity or a divine proxy and ask up
to three questions that can be answered with yes
or no. You must ask your questions before the
spell ends. You receive a correct answer for each
question.
Divine beings aren't necessarily omniscient, so
you might receive "unclear" as an answer if a question pertains to information that lies beyond the
deity's knowledge. In a case where a one-word answer could be misleading or contrary to the deity's
interests, the DM might offer a short phrase as an
answer instead.
If you cast the spell more than once before finishing a Long Rest, there is a cumulative 25 percent
chance for each casting after the first that you get
no answer.
COMMUNE WITH NATURE
Level 5 Divination (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You commune with nature spirits and gain knowledge of the surrounding area. In the outdoors, the
spell gives you knowledge of the area within 3 miles
of you. In caves and other natural underground
settings, the radius is limited to 300 feet. The spell
doesn't function where nature has been replaced by
construction, such as in castles and settlements.
Choose three of the following facts; you learn
those facts as they pertain to the spell's area:
Locations of settlements
• Locations of portals to other planes of existence
• Location of one Challenge Rating 10+ creature
(DM's choice) that is a Celestial, an Elemental, a
Fey, a Fiend, or an Undead
252
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
The most prevalent kind of plant, min i'~t\. or
Beast (you choose which to lea1·n)
Locations of bodies of water
For example, you could determ ine the location of a
powerful monster in the area, the locations of bodies of water, and the locations of any towns.
COMPELLED DUEL
Level 1 Enchantment (Paladin)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
You try to compel a creature into a duel. One creature that you can see within range makes a Wisdom
saving throw. On a failed save, the target has Disadvantage on attack rolls against creatures other than
you, and it can't willingly move to a space that is
more than 30 feet away from you.
The spell ends if you make an attack roll against a
creature other than the target, if you cast a spell on
an enemy other than the target, if an ally of yours
damages the target, or if you end your turn more
than 30 feet away from the target.
COMPREHEND LANGUAGES
Level 1 Divination (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of soot and salt)
Duration: 1 hour
For the duration, you understand the literal meaning of any language that you hear or see signed. You
also understand any written language that you see,
but you must be touching the surface on which the
words are written. It takes about 1 minute to read
one page of text. This spell doesn't decode symbols
or secret messages.
COMPULSION
Level 4 Enchantment (Bard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 mi nute
Each creature of your choice that you can see
within range must succeed on a Wisdom saving
throw or have the Charmed ronc.lilion until the spell
ends.
