# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 8/387

DICE
Dice acid randomness to the game. They help determine whether characters and monsters are successful at the things they attempt.
DICE NOTATION
The dice used in D&D are referred to by the letter
d followed by the die's number of sides: d4, d6, dB,
dlO, d12, and d2O. For instance, a d6 is a six-sided
die (the cube that many games use). The illustration
on this page shows what each die looks like.
When you need to roll dice, the rules tell you how
many dice to roll of a certain type, along with any
numbers to add or subtract. For example, "3d8 + S"
means you roll three eight-sided dice, add them together, and add 5 to the total.
PERCENTILE DICE
The rules sometimes refer to a dlOO. While such
dice exist, the common way to roll ldlOO uses a pair
of ten-sided dice numbered from O to 9, known as
percentile dice. One die-that you designate before
rolling-gives the tens digit, and the other gives the
ones digit. If you roll a 7 for the tens digit and a 1 for
the ones digit, for example, the number rolled is 71.
Two Os represent 100.
Some ten-sided dice are numbered in tens (00, 10,
20, and so on), making it easier to distinguish the
tens digit from the ones digit. In this case, a roll of
70 and 1 is 71, and 00 and O is 100.
D3
The same d notation appears in the expression
"ld3," even though it's rare to find dice with only
three sides. To simulate rolling ld3, roll ld6 and divide the number rolled by 2 (round up).
WHAT ARE DICE FOR?
Here are the most common uses of dice in D&D.
D20 TEST
The 2O-sided die (d2O) is the most important die
you'll use in the game. It's central to the core mechanic-called D2O Tests-the game uses to determine whether creatures succeed or fail at the things
06
INTERPRETING DIE Rous IN THE STORY
Part of the fun of D&D is interpreting what die
rolls mean in the story. The randomness that dice
bring often introduces the unexpected: an expert
fails, a novice succeeds, or any number of other
twists. When a D20 Test or another roll produces
a surprise, the Dungeon Master often gives a fun
description of what happened. If you're a player,
look for opportunities to interpret your character's die rolls and describe why things unfolded
unexpectedly or even humorously.
they attempt during the game (see "D2O Tests"
later in this chapter). You roll a d2O whenever your
character tries to do something that the DM decides
has a chance of both success and failure. The higher
your roll, the more likely it is that you succeed.
DAMAGE
The most common use for dice other than the d2O
is to determine damage. When you make a successful attack roll (one kind of D2O Test), you roll
damage to see how effective the attack is. When you
cast a spell, you might also roll damage. Different
weapons and spells use different dice for damage.
For example, a Dagger uses ld4, a Greataxe uses
ld12, and a Fireball spell uses 8d6.
RANDOM TABLES
Occasionally, you'll see a table that uses a die roll to
generate a random result. On these tables, you'll see
a die expression, such as dlO or dlOO, in the header
of the leftmost column. Roll that die, and find the
number you rolled (or a range containing that number) in that column. Read across that row for the
result. For example, the Trinkets table in chapter 2
uses a dlOO.
PERCENTAGE CHANCES
Sometimes you might see a rule describing a percentage chance of something happening. For example, a rule might say there is a 5 percent chance of
something happening. You can determine whether
that thing happens by rolling percentile dice; if the
roll is equal to or less than the percentage chance (a
01 to 05, in this example), it happens.
CH :\ PTE R l I PLAY I NG Tl-IE G:\ ME
9
