# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 337/387

explodes in a 20-foot-radius Sphere. Each creatu.re
in that area makes a Dexterity saving throw. On a
failed save, a creature takes 10d4 Acid damage and
another 5d4 Acid damage at the end of its next turn.
On a successful save, a creature takes half the initial
damage only.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The initial damage
increases by 2d4 for each spell slot level above 4.
WALL OF FIRE
Level 4 Evocation (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a piece of charcoal)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a wall of fire on a solid surface within
range. You can make the wall up to 60 feet long, 20
feet high, and 1 foot thick, or a ringed wall up to 20
feet in diameter, 20 feet high, and 1 foot thick. The
wall is opaque and lasts for the duration.
When the wall appears, each creature in its area
makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking Sd8 Fire
damage on a failed save or half as much damage on
a successful one.
One side of the wall, selected by you when you
cast this spell, deals Sd8 Fire damage to each creature that ends its turn within 10 feet of that side or
inside the wall. A creature takes the same damage
when it enters the wall for the first time on a turn
138
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
or ends its turn there. The other side of the wall
deals no damage.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage increases by ld8 for each spell slot level above 4.
WALL OF FORCE
Level 5 Evocation (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a shard of glass)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
An Invisible wall of force springs into existence at
a point you choose within range. The ~all appears
in any orientation you choose, as a horizontal or
vertical barrier or at an angle. It can be free floating
or resting on a solid surface. You can form it into a
hemispherical dome or a globe with a radius of up
to 10 feet, or you can shape a flat surface made up
of ten 10-foot-by-10-foot panels. Each panel must
be contiguous with another panel. In any form, the
wall is 1/4 inch thick and lasts for the duration. If
the wall cuts through a creature's space when it appears, the creature is pushed to one side of the wall
(you choose which side).
Nothing can physically pass th1·ough the wall. It
is immune to all damage and c.-1n't he dispelled by
Dispel Magic. A Disintegrate '.i!)(;li destroys the wall
instantly, however. The w· I .1-;,-, l.xtends into the
Ethereal Plane and blocks e1' 1 :-:·•. ;ii travel through
the wall.
