# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 375/387

STUNNED [CONDITION]
While you have the Stunned condition, you experience the following effects.
Incapacitated. You have the Incapacitated
condition.
Saving Throws Affected. You automatically fail
Strength and Dexterity saving throws.
Attacks Affected. Attack rolls against you have
Advantage.
SUFFOCATION [HAZARD]
A creature can hold its breath for a number of
minutes equal to 1 plus its Constitution modifier
(minimum of 30 seconds) before suffocation begins.
When a creature runs out of breath or is choking, it gains 1 Exhaustion level at the end of each
of its turns. When a creature can breathe again,
it removes all levels of Exhaustion it gained from
suffocating.
SURPRISE
If a creature is caught unawares by the start of
combat, that creature is surprised, which causes it
to have Disadvantage on its Initiative roll. See also
chapter 1 ("Combat").
SWIMMING
While you're swimming, each foot of movement
costs 1 extra foot (2 extra feet in Difficult Terrain).
You ignore this extra cost if you have a Swim Speed
and use it to swim. At the DM's option, moving any
distance in rough water might require a successful
DC 15 Strength {Athletics) check.
SWIM SPEED
A Swim Speed can be used to swim without expending the extra movement normally associated with
swimming. See also "Swimming" and "Speed."
TARGET
A target is the creature or object targeted by an
attack roll, forced to make a saving throw by an
effect, or selected to receive the effects of a spell or
another phenomenon.
,,,.,h
APPENDIX C ! RULES GLOSSARY
TELEPATHY
Telepathy is a magical ability that allows a creature
to communicate mentally with another creature
within a specified range. Unless a rule states otherwise, the contacted creature doesn't need to share a
language with the telepath to understand this communication, but the contacted creature must be able
to understand at least one language or be telepathic
itself to understand.
A telepath doesn't need to see a contacted creature, and the telepath can start or end the telepathic
contact at any time (no action requi red). Telepathic
contact can't be initiated and is immediately broken
if either the telepath or the other creature has the
Incapacitated condition. Telepathic contact is also
broken if the contacted creature is no longer within
the telepathy's range or if the telepath contacts a
different creature within range.
A creature without telepathy can receive telepathic messages but can't initiate a telepathic conversation. Once a telepathic conversation starts,
the non-telepath can communicate mentally to the
telepath until the telepathic connection ends.
T'ELEPORTATION
Teleportation is a special kind of magical transportation. If you teleport, you disappear and reappear
elsewhere instantly, without moving through the intervening space. This transportation doesn't expend
movement unless a rule tells you otherwise, and
teleportation never provokes Opportunity Attacks.
When you teleport, all the equipment you're
wearing and carrying teleports with you. If you're
touching another creature when you teleport, that
creature doesn't teleport with you unless the teleportation effect says otherwise.
If the destination space of your teleportation is
occupied by another creature or blocked by a solid
obstacle, you instead appear in the nearest unoccupied space of your choice.
The description of a teleportation effect tells you
if you must see the teleportation's destination.
TEMPORARY HIT POINTS
Temporary Hit Points are granted by certain effects
and act as a buffer against losing real Hit Points. See
also chapter 1 ("Damage and Healing").
