# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 299/387

you. If it takes any damage or is targeted by another
spell, this spell ends, and no memories are modified.
While this charm lasts, you can affect the target's
memory of an event that it experienced within the
last 24 hours and that lasted no more than 10 minutes. You can permanently eliminate all memory of
the event, allow the target to recall the event with
perfect clarity, change its memory of the event's details, or create a memory of some other event.
You must speak to the target to describe how its
memories are affected, and it must be able to understand your language for the modified memories to
take root. Its mind fills in any gaps in the details of
your description. If the spell ends before you finish
describing the modified memories, the creature's
memory isn't altered. Otherwise, the modified memories take hold when the spell ends.
A modified memory doesn't necessarily affect
how a creature behaves, particularly if the memory contradicts the creature's natural inclinations,
alignment, or beliefs. An illogical modified memory,
such as a false memory of how much the creature
enjoyed swimming in acid, is dismissed as a bad
dream. The DM might deem a modified memory too
nonsensical to affect a creature.
A Remove Curse or Greater Restoration spell cast on
the target restores the creature's true memory.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can alter the
target's memories of an event that took place up to 7
days ago (level 6 spell slot), 30 days ago (level 7 spell
slot), 365 days ago (level 8 spell slot), or any time in
the creature's past (level 9 spell slot).
MOONBEAM
Level 2 Evocation (Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a moonseed leaf)
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
A silvery beam of pale light shines down in a
5-foot-radius, 40-foot-high Cylinder centered on a
point within range. Until the spell ends, Dim Light
fills the Cylinder, and you can take a Magic action
on later turns to move the Cylinder up to 60 feet.
When the Cylinder appears, each creature in it
makes a Constitution saving throw. On a failed
save, a creature takes 2d10 Radiant damage, and if
the creature is shape-shifted (as a result of the Polymorph spell, for example), it reverts to its true form
and can't shape-shift until it leaves the Cylinder.
On a successful save, a creature takes half as much
damage only. A creature also makes this save when
the spell's area moves into its space and when it
300
CH APTER 7 I SPE LLS
enters the spell's area or ends its turn there. A creature makes this save only once per turn.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage increases by ldlO for each spell slot level above 2.
MORDENKAINEN 'S FAITHF U L HOUN D
Level 4 Conjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a silver whistle)
Duration: 8 hours
You conjure a phantom watchdog in an unoccupied
space that you can see within range. The hound
remains for the duration or until the two of you are
more than 300 feet apart from each other.
No one but you can see the hound, and it is intangible and invulnerable. When a Small or larger
creature comes within 30 feet of it without first
speaking the password that you specify when you
cast this spell, the hound starts barking loudly. The
hound has Truesight with a range of 30 feet.
At the start of each of your turns, the hound attempts to bite one enemy within 5 feet of it. That
enemy must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or
take 4d8 Force damage.
On your later turns, you can take a Magic action
to move the hound up to 30 feet.
MORDENKAINEN'S MAGNIFICENT MANSION
Level 7 Conjuration (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: l minute
Range: 300 feet
Components: V, S, M (a miniature door worth 15+ GP)
Duration: 24 hours
You conjure a shimmering door in range that lasts
for the duration. The door leads to an extradimensional dwelling and is 5 feet wide and 10 feet tall.
You and any creature you designate when you cast
the spell can enter the extradimensional dwelling
as long as the door remains open. You can open or
close it (no action required) if you are within 30
feet of it. While closed, the door is imperceptible.
Beyond the door is a magnificent foyer with
numerous chambers beyond. The dwelling's atmosphere is clean, fresh, and warm.
You can create any floor plan you like for the
dwelling, but it can't exceed 50 contiguous 10-foot
Cubes. The place is furnished and decorated as you
choose. It contains sufficient foot! to serve a ninecourse banquet for up to 100 people. Furnishings
and other objects created by this spell dissipate into
smoke if removed from it.
