# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 23/387

Communicating. You can communicate however
you are able-through brief utterances and gestures-as you take your turn. Doing so uses neither
your action nor your move.
Extended communication, such as a detailed explanation of something or an attempt to persuade a
foe, requires an action. The Influence action is the
main way you try to influence a monster.
Interacting with Things. You can interact with
one object or feature of the environment for free,
during either your move or action. For example, you
could open a door during your move as you stride
toward a foe.
If you want to interact with a second object, you
need to take the Utilize action. Some magic items
and other special objects always require an action
to use, as stated in their descriptions.
The DM might require you to use an action for
any of these activities when it needs special care or
when it presents an unusual obstacle. For instance,
the DM might require you to take the Utilize action
to open a stuck door or turn a crank to lower a
drawbridge.
Doing Nothing on Your Tum. You can forgo moving, taking an action, or doing anything at all on
your turn. If you can't decide what to do, consider
taking the defensive Dodge action or the Ready action to delay acting.
CHAlffER I I PLAYING THE GAME
ENDING COMBAT
Combat ends when one side or the other is defeated,
which can mean the creatures are killed or knocked
out or have surrendered or fled. Combat can also
end when both sides agree to end it.
MOVEMENT AND POSITION
On your turn, you can move a distance equal to
your Speed or less. Or you can decide not to move.
Your movement can include climbing, crawling,
jumping, and swimming (each explained in the rules
glossary). These different modes of movement can
be combined with your regular movement, or they
can constitute your entire move.
However you're moving with your Speed, you
deduct the distance of each part of your move from
it until it is used up or until you are done moving,
whichever comes first.
A character's Speed is determined during character creation. A monster's Speed is noted in the
monster's stat block. See the rules glossary for more
about Speed as well as about special speeds, such as
a Climb Speed, Fly Speed, or Swim Speed.
DIFFICULT TERRAIN
Combatants are often slowed down by Difficult
Terrain. Low furniture, rubble, undergrowth, steep
stairs, snow, and shallow bogs are examples of Difficult Terrain.
