# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 3/387

INTRODUCTION
WELCOME TO ADVENTU
THIS STORY BEGAN 50 YEARS AGO, AND YOU 'RE PART O F
it. In the 1970s. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson created a
game of make-believe that fused rules with storytelling.
There"d never been anything like it: a game in which each
player made their own fantasy character and teamed up
with their friends to go on quests. One person served as the
narrator and referee-the Dungeon Master-and did everything they could to challenge and delight the other players.
That game was, of course, the first version of Dungeons &
Dragons. andyou're now reading its latest version.
Over the decades, millions of people have played D&D,
and scores of writers. game designers. and artists have
made their mark on it through its various editions. When
our team released the current edition in 2014, we were
humbled by how many of you loved it. This revised version of it is a salute to all of you-those of you who've been
playing D&D for years, those of you who've contributed to
the game through your feedback, and those of you who are
about to experience the joy of playing itfor the first time.
As a teenager, I met both Gary and Dave. I even spent
an entire day with Gary, and we did what all D&D fans do:
share stories about our adventures in the D&:D multiverse.
I invite you to embark on such adventures anew. Share as
much laughter as you can withyourfriends. Use onry the
rules that serve your fun, and always follow your group's
bliss. So many people have been enjoying the magic of D&:D
for half a century. Let's keep it blazing for another 50 years!
-Jeremy Crawford
RE YOU READY TO EMBARK ON FANTASY
adventures with your friends? DUNGEONS
& DRAGONS invites you to play imaginary
adventurers who delve into dungeons and other
perilous locations together, face fearsome foes such
as dragons, and build friendships forged amid fantastical dangers.
Fueled by imagination and rules, D&D invites
you to adopt a fantasy persona-a mighty Fighter, a
cunning Rogue, a faithful Cleric, a magical Wizard,
or something else-and then solve problems, fight
monsters, and visit wondrous places.
There's no winning and losing in D&D, at least
not the way those terms are usually understood.
Together you and friends create an exciting story
of adventurers who confront perils. Sometimes an
INTRODUCTION I WELCOME TO ADVENTURE
adventurer might come to a tragic end. Even so, the
other adventurers can search for powerful magic to
revive their fallen comrade, or the character's player
might create a new character to carry on. No matter
what happens, if everyone has a good time and creates a memorable story, they all win.
WHAT You NEED
Here's what you need to play D&D with one or more
friends (a typical group has five people):
Dungeon Master. One person takes on the role of
the Dungeon Master (DM), the game's lead storyteller and referee. The DM creates adventures for
the players' characters, who navigate its hazards
and decide which paths to explore. The DM also
narrates what they experience and plays the
friends and foes they meet along the way. Even
though the DM challenges the adventurers, the
DM always strives to delight the whole group.
Players. Each player creates an adventurer who
teams up with the other players' adventurers.
Working together, the group might explore a dark
dungeon, a ruined city, a haunted castle, a lost
temple, a lava-filled mountain, or another location
described by the DM. The adventurers also solve
puzzles, talk with other characters, battle fantastic monsters, and discover magic items and other
treasure-all while supporting each other's fun.
You also need these resources, either in physical
form or on DnDBeyond.com:
Player's Handbook. This book is your essential
reference for the game's rules, and it guides you
through making an adventurer of your own.
Dungeon Master's Guide and Monster Manual. The
first of these books guides the OM through creating and running adventures, and the second holds
hundreds of monsters to fill those adventures.
LEARN BY WATCHING
A great way to learn the basics of D&D is to watch
people play it. The Internet offers videos of D&D
play that show off the tremendous range of possibilities the game offers. As you watch, pay attention to the ways that some players help make the
game fun for everyone in their group. The only
audience you need to entertain when you're playing D&D is yourself and your group.
