# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 207/387

SKULKER
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Dexterity 13+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Dexterity
score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Blindsight. You have Blindsight with a range of 10
feet.
Fog of War. You exploit the distractions of battle,
gaining Advantage on any Dexterity (Stealth) check
you make as part of the Hide action during combat.
Sniper. If you make an attack roll while hidden
and the roll misses, making the attack roll doesn't
reveal your location.
SLASHER
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or
Dexterity score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Hamstring. Once per turn when you hit a creature
with an attack that deals Slashing damage, you can
reduce the Speed of that creature by 10 feet until
the start of your next turn.
Enhanced Critical. When you score a Critical Hit
that deals Slashing damage to a creature, it has
Disadvantage on attack rolls until the start of your
next turn.
SPEEDY
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Dexterity or
Constitution 13+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Dexterity or
Constitution score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Speed Increase. Your Speed increases by 10 feet.
Dash over Difficult Terrain. When you take the
Dash action on your turn, Difficult Terrain doesn't
cost you extra movement for the rest of that turn.
Agile Movement. Opportunity Attacks have Disadvantage against you.
208
CH A PTER 5 I FEATS
SPELL SNIPER
General Feat (Prereqt1isite: Level 4+, Spellcast-ing or Pact
Magic Feature)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your lntclligence,
Wisdom, or Charisma score by 1, to a maximum of
20.
Bypass Cover. Your attack rolls for spells ignore
Half Cover and Three-Quarters Cover.
Casting in Melee. Being within 5 feet of an enemy
doesn't impose Disadvantage on your attack rolls
with spells.
Increased Range. When you cast a spell that has a
range of at least 10 feet and requires you to make an
attack roll, you can increase the spell's range by 60
feet.
T ELEKIN ETIC
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Intelligence,
Wisdom, or Charisma score by 1, to a maximum of
20.
Minor Telekinesis. You learn the Mage Hand spell.
You can cast it without Verbal or Somatic components, you can make the spectral hand Invisible, and
its range increases by 30 feet when you cast it. The
spell's spelkasting ability is the ability increased by
this feat.
Telekinetic Shove. As a Bonus Action, you can telekinetically shove one creature you can see within
30 feet of yourself. When you do so, the target must
succeed on a Strength saving throw (DC 8 plus the
ability modifier of the score increased by this feat
and your Proficiency Bonus) or be moved 5 feet toward or away from you.
TELEPATH IC
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Intelligence,
Wisdom, or Charisma score by 1, to a maximum of
20.
Telepathic Utterance. You can speak telepathically
to any creature you can see within 60 feet of yourself. Your telepathic utterances are in a language
you know, and the creature understa nds you only
if it knows that language. Your communication
doesn't give the creature the ability lo respond to
you telepathically.
