# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 176/387

CHAPTER 4
-I1ARACTER ORIGINS
szc:;/ .
HI S CHAPTER DESCRIBES THE TWO
components of an adventurer's origin: background and species. Together, these elements
suggest your character's early experience and
family origin before taking up the adventuring life
and learning the capabilities of a class (described in
chapter 3).
ORIGI N COMPONENTS
Each part of your character's origin reflects facets
of your character, their life, and the circumstances
that started them on the path to adventure.
If you choose a background or a species from an
older book, see the sidebar "Backgrounds and Species from Older Books" in chapter 2 for how to use
them with the options here.
C HA RACTER BACKGROUNDS
Your character's background is a collection of characteristics that represent the place and occupation
that were most formative before your character embarked on a life of adventure.
Each background includes a brief narrative of
what your character's past might have been like. Alter the details of this narrative however you like.
PARTS O F A B ACK GROUND
A background includes the following parts.
Ability Scores. A background lists three of your
character's ability scores. Increase one by 2 and
another one by 1, or increase all three by 1. None of
these increases can raise a score above 20.
Feat. A background gives your character a specified Origin feat (described in chapter 5).
Skill Proficiencies. A background gives your character proficiency in two specified skills.
Tool Proficiency. Each background gives a character proficiency with one tool- either a specific tool
or one chosen from the Artisan's Tools category.
Tools are detailed in chapter 6.
Equipment. Each background offers a choice between a package of equipment and 50 GP.
CHAR ACTER S PECIES
When you choose your character's species, you
determine whether your character is a human or a
member of a fa ntastical species, such as dragonborn
or gnome.
The peoples of the D&D multiverse hail from different worlds and include many kinds of sapient life
forms. A player character's species is the set of game
traits that an adventurer gains from being one of
those life forms.
Some species can trace their origin to a single
world, plane of existence, or god, while other species first appeared in multiple realms at once. Whatever a species' genesis, its members have spread
across the multiverse and contribute to many different cultures.
Members of most species live for about 80 years,
with exceptions noted in the text about the species
in this chapter. Regardless of life span, members
of all species reach physical maturity at about the
same age. Your character can be any age that isn't
beyond their species' normal life span.
PARTS OF A SPECI ES
A species includes the following parts.
Creature 'Iype. A character's species determines
the character's creature type, which is described in
the rules glossary. Every species in this chapter is
Humanoid; playable non-Humanoid species appear
in other D&D books.
Size. Your character's species determines the
character's size. Individuals within a species cover
a wide range of heights, and some species include
such diversity of size that you can choose whether
your character is Small or Medium.
Speed. Your character's species determines the
character's Speed.
Special Traits. Each species gives a character
special traits-unique characteristics based on the
species' physiology or magical nature. When you
choose a species, your character gets all the special
traits listed for it. Some traits involve making a
choice from a handful of options.
BACKGROUND DESCRIPTIONS
Sixteen backgrounds are presented in this section in
alphabetical order:
Acolyte
Guard
Sailor
Artisan
Guide
Scribe
Charlatan
Hermit
Soldier
Crimin?.!
M~rr.h:mt.
Wnyfarer
Enterta.,ner
Nub(c
Farmer
Sage
CHAPTER 4 I CHARACTER OR IGINS
177
