# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 103/387

MONK SUBCLASSES
A Monk subclass is a specialization that grants you
features at certain levels, as specified in the subclass. This section presents the Warrior of Mercy,
Warrior of Shadow, Warrior of the Elements, and
Warrior of the Open Hand subclasses.
WARRIOR O F MERCY
Manipulate Forces of Life and Death
Warriors of Mercy manipulate the life force of
others. These Monks are wandering physicians,
but they bring a swift end to their enemies. They
often wear masks, presenting themselves as faceless
bringers of life and death.
L EVEL 3: HAND OF HARM
Once per turn when you hit a creature with an
Unarmed Strike and deal damage, you can expend 1
Focus Point to deal extra Necrotic damage equal to
one roll of your Martial Arts die plus your Wisdom
modifier.
LEVEL 3: HAND OF HEALING
As a Magic action, you can expend 1 Focus Point to
touch a creature and restore a number of Hit Points
equal to a roll of your Martial Arts die plus your
Wisdom modifier.
When you use your Flurry of Blows, you can replace one of the Unarmed Strikes with a use of this
feature without expending a Focus Point for the
healing.
L EVEL 3: I MPLEMENTS OF MERCY
You gain proficiency in the Insight and Medicine
skills and proficiency'with the Herbalism Kit.
L EVEL 6: P H YSICI AN'S TOUCH
Your Hand of Harm and Hand of Healing improve,
as detailed below.
Hand of Harm. When you use Hand of Harm on
a creature, you can also give that creature the Poisoned condition until the end of your next turn.
Hand of Healing. When you use Hand of Healing,
you can also end one of the following conditions on
the creature you heal: Blinded, Deafened, Paralyzed,
Poisoned, or Stunned.
LEVEL 11: FLU RRY O F HEALING AND HARM
When you use Flurry of Blows, you can replace
each of the Unarmed Strikes with a use of Hand of
Healing without expending Focus Points for the
healing.
In addition, when you make an Unarmed Strike
with Flurry of Blows and deal damage, you can use
Hand of Harm with that strike withou1· expending
a Focus Point for Hand of Harm. You ca n still use
Hand of Harm only once per turn.
