# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 373/387

·
.. ---
SIMULTANEOUS EFFECTS
If two or more things happen at the same time on a
turn, the person at the game table-player or DM-
whose turn it is decides the order in which those
things happen. For example, if two effects occur at
the start of a player character's turn, the player decides which of the effects happens first.
SIZE
A creature or an object belongs to a size category:
Tiny, Small, Medium, Large, Huge, or Gargantuan.
A creature's size determines how much space the
creature occupies in combat. An object's size affects
its Hit Points. See also "Breaking Objects" and chapter 1 ("Combat").
SKILL
A skill is an area of specialization associated with
an ability check. If you have proficiency in a skill,
you can add your Proficiency Bonus when you make
an ability check associated with that skill. See also
chapter 1 ("Proficiency").
SPEED
A creature has a Speed, which is the distance in feet
the creature can cover when it moves on its turn.
See also "Climbing," "Crawling," "Flying," "Jumping,"
"Swimming" and chapter 1 ("Combat").
Special Speeds. Some creatures have special
speeds, such as a Burrow Speed, Climb Speed, Fly
Speed, or Swim Speed, each of which is defined
in this glossary. If you have more than one speed,
choose which one to use when you move; you can
switch between the speeds during your move.
Whenever you switch, subtract the distance already
moved from the new speed. The result determines
how much farther you can move. If the result is O or
less, you can't use the new speed during the current
move. For example, if you have a Speed of 30 and a
Fly Speed of 40, you could fly 10 feet, walk 10 feet,
and leap into the air to fly 20 feet more.
Changes to Your Speeds. If an effect increases or
decreases your Speed for a time, any special speed
you have increases or decreases by an equal amount
? "7.c
APPE NDIX C I RULES GLOSSARY
~
~~~~-~-~~
,_
-
J5_s --
for the same duration. For example, if your Speed
is reduced to O and you have a Climb Speed, your
Climb Speed is also reduced to 0. Similarly, if your
Speed is halved and you have a Fly Speed, your Fly
Speed is also halved.
SPELL
A spell is a magical effect that has the characteristics described in chapter 7.
SPELL ATTACK
A spell attack is an attack roll made as part of a spell
or another magical effect. See also chapter 7 ("Casting Spells").
SPELLCASTING Focus
A Spellcasting Focus is an object that certain creatures can use in place of a spell's Material components if those materials aren't consumed by the spell
and don't have a cost specified. Some classes allow
its members to use certain types of Spellcasting Focuses. See also chapter 7 ("Casting Spells").
SPHERE [AREA OF EFFECT]
~ Sphere is an area of effect that extends in straight
Imes from a point of origin outward in all directions. The effect that creates a Sphere specifies the
distance it extends as the radius of the Sphere.
A Sphere's point of origin is included in the
Sphere's area of effect.
STABLE
A creature is Stable if it has O Hit Points but isn't
required to make Death Saving Throws. See also
chapter 1 ("Damage and Healing").
STAT BLOCK
A stat block contains the game statistics of a monster. Each stat block includes the follow ing information presented after the monster's name.
Size. A monster is Tiny, Small, M1>dium, Large,
Huge, or Gargantuan. See also "Size."
