# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 234/387

I
I
I
I
CHAPTER 7
SPELLS
HIS CHAPT ER GIV ES RULES FOR CASTING
spells. It also includes descriptions of common spells in the worlds of DUNGEONS
& DRAGONS. Those spells are used by many class
features, magic items, and monsters.
GAINING SPELLS
Before you can cast a spell, you must have the spell
prepared in your mind or have access to the spell
from a magic item, such as a Spell Scroll. Your features specify which spells you have access to, if any;
whether you always have certain spells prepared;
and whether you can change the list of spells you
have prepared.
PR EPARING SPELLS
If you have a list of level 1 + spells you prepare, your
spellcasting feature specifies when you can change
the list and the number of spells you can change, as
summarized in the Spell Preparation by Class table.
SPELL PREPARATION BY CLASS
Class
Change When You ...
Number of Spells
Bard
Gain a level
One
Cleric
Finish a Long Rest
Any
Druid
Finish a Long Rest
Any
Paladin
Finish a Long Rest
One
Ranger
Finish a Long Rest
One
Sorcerer
Gain a level
One
Warlock
Gain a level
One
Wizard
Finish a Long Rest
Any
Most spellcasting monsters don't change their lists
of prepared spells, but the OM is free to alter them.
ALWAYS-PRE PARED SPE LLS
Certain featu res might give you a spell that you
always have prepared. If you also have a list of prepared spells that you can change, a spell that you
always have prepared doesn't count against the
number of spells on that list.
C ASTIN G IN A RMOR
You must h,N'" trai ning with any armor you
are wearin~'. ~-:; cast spells while wearing it. You
are otherw :O:,· too hampered by the armor for
spellcastu:'.•
---- -·-- •• ---- -------------
C ASTING SPELLS
Each spell description has a series of entries that
provide the details needed to cast the spell. The following sections explain each of those entries, which
follow a spell's name.
SPELL LEVEL
Every spell has a level from O to 9, which is indicated in a spell's description. A spell's level is an
indicator of how powerful it is. Cantrips-simple
spells that can be cast almost by rote-are level 0.
The rules for each spellcasting class say when its
members gain access to spells of certain levels.
SPELL SLOTS
Spellcasting is taxing, so a spellcaster can cast only
a limited number of level 1+ spells before resting.
Spell slots are the main way a spellcaster's magical
potential is represented. Each spellcasting class
gives its members a limited number of spell slots of
certain spell levels. For example, a level 3 Wizard
has four level 1 spell slots and two level 2 slots.
When you cast a spell, you expend a slot of that
spell's level or higher, effectively "filling" a slot
with the spell. Imagine a spell slot is a groove of a
certain size-small for a level 1 slot and larger for a
higher-level spell. A level 1 spell fits into a slot of any
size, but a level 2 spell fits only into a slot that's at
least level 2. So when a level 3 Wizard casts Magic
Missile, a level 1 spell, that Wizard spends one of
four level 1 slots and has three remaining.
Finishing a Long Rest restores any expended spell
slots.
C AST ING WITHOUT SLOTS
There are several ways to cast a spell without
expending a spell slot:
Cantrips. A cantrip is cast without a spell slot.
Rituals. Certain spells have the Ritual tag in the
Casting Time entry. Such a spell can be cast following the normal rules for spellcasting, or it can
be cast as a Ritual. The Ritual version of a spell
takes 10 minutes longer to cast than normal, but it
doesn't expend a spell slot. To cast a spell as a Ritual, a spellcaster must have it prepared.
Special Abilities. Some characters and monsters
have special abilities that allow them to cast specific spells without a spell slot. This casting is usually limited in another way, such as being able to
cast the spell a limited number of times per day.
C HAPTER 7 I PELLS
235
