# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 19/387

WHAT Is AN OBJECT?
For the purpose of the rules, an object is a discrete,
inanimate item like a window, door, sword, book,
table, chair, or stone. It isn't a building or a vehicle,
which are composed of many objects.
nME-LIMITED OBJECT INTERACTIONS
When time is short, such as in combat, interactions
with objects are limited: one free interaction per
turn. That interaction must occur during a creature's movement or action. Any additional interactions require the Utilize action, as explained in
"Combat" later in this chapter.
FINDING HIDDEN OBJECTS
When your character searches for hidden things,
such as a secret door or a trap, the DM typically
asks you to make a Wisdom (Perception) check,
provided you describe the character searching in
the hidden object's vicinity. On a success, you find
the object, other important details, or both.
If you describe your character searching nowhere
near a hidden object, a Wisdom (Perception) check
won't reveal the object, no matter the check's total.
CARRYING OBJECTS
You can usually carry your gear and treasure without worrying about the weight of those objects.
If you try to haul an unusually heavy object or a
massive number of lighter objects, the DM might require you to abide by the rules for carrying capacity
in the rules glossary.
BREAKING OBJECTS
As an action, you can automatically break or otherwise destroy a fragile, nonmagical object, such as
a glass container or a piece of paper. If you try to
damage something more resilient, the DM might use
the rules on breaking objects in the rules glossary.
HAZARDS
Monsters are the main perils characters face, but
other dangers await. The rules glossary defines the
following hazards:
Burning
Dehydration
TRAVEL
Falling
Malnutrition
Suffocation
During an adventure, the characters might travel
long distances on trips that could take hours or
days. The DM can summarize this travel without
calculating exact distances or travel times, or the
DM might have you use the travel pace rules below.
If you need to know how fast you can move when
every second matters, see the movement rules in
"Combat" later in this chapter.
20
CHAPTER l I PLAYING THE GAME
MARCHING ORDER
The adventurers should establish a marching
order while they travel, whether indoors or outdoors. A marching order makes it easier to determine which characters are affected by traps,
which ones can spot hidden enemies, and which
ones are the closest to those enemies if a fight
breaks out. You can change your marching order
outside combat and record the order any way you
like: write it down, for example, or arrange miniatures to show it.
TRAVEL PACE
While traveling outside combat, a group can move
at a Fast, Normal, or Slow pace, as shown on the
Travel Pace table. The table states how far the
party can move in a period of time; if riding horses
or other mounts, the group can move twice that
distance for 1 hour, after which the mounts need
a Short or Long Rest before they can move at that
increased pace again (see chapter 6 for a selection
of mounts for sale). The Dungeon Master's Guide has
rules that affect which pace you can choose in certain types of terrain.
TRAVEL PACE
Distance Traveled Per ...
Pace
Minute
Hour
Day
Fast
400 feet
4 miles
30 miles
Normal
300 feet
3 miles
24 miles
Slow
200 feet
2 miles
18 miles
Each travel pace has a game effect, as defined below.
Fast. Traveling at a Fast pace imposes Disadvantage on a traveler's Wisdom (Perception or Survival) and Dexterity (Stealth) checks.
Normal. Traveling at a Normal pace imposes Disadvantage on Dexterity (Stealth} checks.
Slow. Traveling at a Slow pace grants Advantage
on Wisdom (Perception or Survival} checks.
VEHICLES
Travelers in wagons, carriages, or other land vehicles choose a pace as normal. Characters in a waterborne vessel are limited to the speed of the vessel,
and they don't choose a travel pace. Depending on
the vessel and the size of the crew, ships might be
able to travel for up to 24 hours per day. Chapter 6
includes vehicles for sale.
EXPLORATION EXAMPLE
This scene finds the player characters investigating
a mysterious and potentially dangerous location.
They're moving through the environment and interacting with things they find there.
