# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 257/387

CORDON OF ARROWS
Level 2 Transmutation (Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (an ornamental braid)
Duration: 8 hours
You touch up to four nonmagical Arrows or Bolts
and plant them in the ground in your space. Until
the spell ends, the ammunition can't be physically
uprooted, and whenever a creature other than you
enters a space within 30 feet of the ammunition for
the first time on a turn or ends its turn there, one
piece of ammunition flies up to strike it. The creature must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or
take 2d4 Piercing damage. The piece of ammunition
is then destroyed. The spell ends when none of the
ammunition remains planted in the ground.
When you cast this spell, you can designate any
creatures you choose, and the spell ignores them.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The amount of ammunition that can be affected increases by two for
each spell slot level above 2.
----- --- ---·-
C OUNTERSPELL
Level 3 Abjuration (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Reaction, which you take when you see
a creature within 60 feet of yourself casting a spell
with Verbal, Somatic, or Material components
Range: 60 feet
Components: S
Duration: Instantaneous
You attempt to interrupt a creature in the process
of casting a spell. The creature makes a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the spell dissipates with no effect, and the action, Bonus Action,
or Reaction used to cast it is wasted. If that spell
was cast with a spell slot, the slot isn't expended.
CREATE FOOD AND WATER
Level 3 Conjuration (Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You create 45 pounds of food and 30 gallons of
fresh water on the ground or in containers within
range-both useful in fending off the hazards of
malnutrition and dehydration. The food is bland but
nourishing and looks like a food of your choice, and
the water is clean. The food spoils after 24 hours if
uneaten.
258
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
CREATE OR DESTROY 'WAT E R
Level 1 Transmutation (Cle1·ic, Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M {a mix of water and sand)
Duration: Instantaneous
You do one of the following:
Create Water. You create up to 10 gallons of clean
water within range in an open container. Alternatively, the water falls as rain in a 30-foot Cube
within range, extinguishing exposed flames there.
Destroy Water. You destroy up to 10 gallons of
water in an open container within range. Alternatively, you destroy fog in a 30-foot Cube within
range.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You create or destroy 10 additional gallons of water, or the size of
the Cube increases by 5 feet, for each spell slot level
above 1.
CREATE U NDEAD
Level 6 Necromancy (Cleric, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: l minute
Range: l O feet
Components: V, S, M (one 150+ GP black onyx stone
for each corpse)
Duration: Instantaneous
You can cast this spell only at night. Choose up
to three corpses of Medium or Small Humanoids
within range. Each one becomes a Ghoul under
your control (see the Monster Manual for its stat
block).
As a Bonus Action on each of your turns, you can
mentally command any creature you animated with
this spell if the creature is within 120 feet of you (if
you control multiple creatures, you can command
any of them at the same time, issuing the same command to them). You decide what action the creature
will take and where it will move on its next turn, or
you can issue a general command, such as to guard
a particular place. If you issue no commands, the
creature takes the Dodge action and moves only to
avoid harm. Once given an order, the creature continues to follow the order until its task is complete.
The creature is under your control for 24 hours,
after which it stops obeying any command you've
given it. To maintain control of the creature for
another 24 hours, you must cast this spell on the
creature before the currcftt· 24-hour period ends.
This use of the spell rca ~~,'!ri. your control over up
to three creatures you h :.1 v·-: :.1 ;·dmated with this spell
rather than animating ,w, -;,. cs.
