# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 308/387

,. e
..:
A S f' E LL C. /\S T E R C. O ULO USE
PRO GRAMM ED J L tUSIO N TO C/\USE /\
w/\TC.H 0O G T O A P PE/\ R /\NO K INDLY
/IS K IN TR U D E R S TO LE/\VE .
._,.. __ _
PROGRAM MED I L LUSION
Level 6 Jllusion (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (jade dust worth 25+ GP)
Duration: Until dispelled
--
You create an illusion of an object, a creature, or
some other visible phenomenon within range that
activates when a specific trigger occurs. The illusion
is imperceptible until then. It must be no larger than
a 30-foot Cube, and you decide when you cast the
spell how the illusion behaves and what sounds it
makes. This scripted performance can last up to 5
minutes.
When the trigger you specify occurs, the illusion
springs into existence and performs in the manner
you described. Once the illusion finishes performing, it disappears and remains dormant for 10 minutes, after which the illusion can be activated again.
The trigger can be as general or as detailed as you
like, though it must be based on visual or audible
phenomena that occur within 30 feet of the area.
For example, you could create an illusion of yourself
to appear and warn off others who attempt to open
a trapped door.
Physical interaction with the image reveals it to be
illusory, since things can pass through it. A creature
that takes the Study action to examine the image
can determine that it is an illusion with a successful
Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell
save DC. If a creature discerns the illusion for what
it is, the creature can see through the image, and
any noise it: makes sounds hollow to the creature.
PROJECT IMAGE
Level 7 Illusion (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 500 miles
Components: V, S, M (a statuette of yourself worth
5+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to l day
You create an illusory copy of yourself that lasts for
the duration. The copy can appear at any location
within range that you have seen before, regardless
of intervening obstacles. The illusion looks and
sounds like you, but it is intangible. If the illusion
takes any damage, it disappears, and the spell ends.
You can see through the illusion's eyes and hear
through its ears as if you were in its space. As a
Magic action, you can move it up to 60 feet and
make it gesture, speak, and behave in whatever way
you choose. It mimics your mannerisms perfectly.
Physical interaction with the image reveals it to be
illusory, since things can pass through it. A creature
that takes the Study action to examine the image
can determine that it is an illusion with a successful
Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell
save DC. If a creature discerns the illusion for what
it is, the creature can see through the image, and
any noise it makes sounds hollow to the creature.
PROTECTION FROM ENERGY
Level 3 Abjuration (Cleric, Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer,
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
For the duration, the willing creature you touch has
Resistance to one damage type of your choice: Acid,
Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Thunder.
PROTECTION FROM EVIL AND Goon
Level 1 Abjuration (Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Warlock,
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (a flask of Holy Water worth 25+
GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Concentration up to 10 minutes
Until the spell ends, one willing creature you touch
is protected against creatures that are Aberrations,
Celestials, Elementals, Fey, Fiends, or Undead.
The protection grants several benefits. Creatures
of those types have Disadvantage on attack rolls
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
309
