# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 172/387

,.
"
warded creature takes any remaining damage. If
that creatu re has any Resistances or Vulnerabilities,
apply them before reducing the ward's Hit Points.
LEVEL 10 : SPELL BREAKER
You always have the Counterspell and Dispel Magic
spells prepared. In addition, you can cast Dispel
Magic as a Bonus Action, and you can add your Proficiency Bonus to its ability check.
When you cast either spell with a spell slot, that
slot isn't expended if the spell fails to stop a spell.
L EVEL 14 : SPELL RESISTANCE
You have Advantage on saving throws against
spells, and you have Resistance to the damage of
spells.
DIVINER
Learn the Secrets of the Multi verse
The counsel of a Diviner is sought by those who
want a clearer understanding of the past, present,
and future. As a Diviner, you strive to part the veils
of space, time, and consciousness. You work to master spells of discernment, remote viewing, supernatural knowledge, and foresight.
L EV EL 3: DIVINATION SAVANT
Choose two Wizard spells from the Divination
school, each of which must be no higher than level
2, and add them to your spellbook for free.
In addition, whenever you gain access to a new
level of spell slots in this class, you can add one
Wizard spell from the Divination school to your
spellbook for free. The chosen spell must be of a
level for which you have spell slots.
L EVEL 3: PORTENT
Glimpses of the future begin to press on your
awareness. Whenever you finish a Long Rest, roll
two d20s and record the numbers rolled. You can
replace any D20 Test made by you or a creature
that you can see with one of these foretelling rolls.
You must choose to do so before the roll, and you
can replace a roll in this way only once per turn.
Each foretelling roll can be used only once. When
you finish a Long Rest, you lose any unused foretelling rolls.
L EVE L 6: EX P ERT D IVINATION
Casting Divination spells comes so easily to you that
it expends only a fraction of your spellcasting efforts. When you cast a Divination spell using a level
2+ spell slot, you regain one expended spell slot. The
slot you regain must be of a level lower than the slot
you expended and can't be higher than level 5.
LEVEL 10: THE THIRD EYE
You can increase your powers of perception. As a
Bo~us Action, choose one of the following benefits,
which lasts until you start a Short or Long Rest.
You can't use this feature again until you finish a
Short or Long Rest.
Darkvision. You gain Darkvision with a range of
120 feet.
Greater Comprehension. You can read any
language.
See Invisibility. You can cast See Invisibility without
expending a spell slot.
LEVEL 14: GREATER PORTENT
The visions in your dreams intensify and paint a
more accurate picture in your mind of what is to
come. Roll three d20s for your Portent feature
rather than two.
