# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 98/387

unoccupied space you can see. Alternatively, if the
target is a Tiny object, you can transport it to or
from your hand.
Once you take this action, you can't do so again
until you finish a Short or Long Rest unless you
expend a Psionic Energy Die (no action required) to
restore your use of it.
LEVEL 7: TELEKINETIC ADEPT
You have mastered new ways to use your telekinetic
abilities, detailed below.
Psi-Powered Leap. As a Bonus Action, you gain a
Fly Speed equal to twice your Speed until the end of
the current turn. Once you take this Bonus Action,
you can't do so again until you finish a Short or
Long Rest unless you expend a Psionic Energy Die
(no action required) to restore your use of it.
Telekinetic Thrust. When you deal damage to a
target with your Psionic Strike, you can force the
target to make a Strength saving throw (DC 8 plus
your Intelligence modifier and Proficiency Bonus).
On a failed save, you can give the target the Prone
condition or transport it up to 10 feet horizontally.
LEVEL 10: GUARDED MIND
You have Resistance to Psychic damage. Moreover,
if you start your turn with the Charmed or Frightened condition, you can expend a Psionic Energy
Die (no action required) and end every effect on
yourself giving you those conditions.
LEVEL 15: BULWARK OF FORCE
You can shield yourself and others with telekinetic
force. As a Bonus Action, you can choose creatures,
including yourself, within 30 feet of yourself, up
to a number of creatures equal to your Intelligence
modifier (minimum of one creature). Each of the
chosen creatures has Half Cover for 1 minute or until you have the Incapacitated condition.
Once you use this feature, you can't do so again
until you finish a Long Rest unless you expend a
Psionic Energy Die (no action required) to restore
your use of it.
LEVEL 18: TELEKINETIC MASTER
You always have the Telekinesis spell prepared. With
this feature, you can cast it without a spell slot or
components, and your spellcasting ability for it is
Intelligence. On each of your turns while you maintain Concentration on it, including the turn when
you cast it, you can make one attack with a weapon
as a Bonus Action.
Once you cast the spell with this feature, you can't
do so in this way again until you finish a Long Rest
unless you expend a Psionic Energy Die (no action
required) to restore your use of it.
