# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 7/387

RHYTHM OF PLAY
The three main pillars of D&D play are social interaction. exploration, and combat. Whichever one
you're experiencing, the game unfolds according to
this basic pattern:
1: The Dungeon Master Describes a Scene. The
OM tells the players where their adventurers are
and what's around them (how many doors lead
out of a room, what's on a table, and so on}.
2: The Players Describe What Their Characters
Do. Typically, the characters stick together as
they travel through a dungeon or another environment. Sometimes different adventurers do
different things: one adventurer might search a
treasure chest while a second examines a mysterious symbol engraved on a wall and a third
keeps watch for monsters. Outside combat, the
DM ensures that every character has a chance to
act and decides how to resolve their activity. In
combat, the characters take turns.
3: The DM Narrates the Results of the Adventurers' Actions. Sometimes resolving a task is easy.
If an adventurer walks across a room and tries
to open a door, the DM might say the door opens
and describe what lies beyond. But the door
might be locked, the floor might hide a trap, or
some other circumstance might make it challenging for an adventurer to complete a task. In those
cases, the DM might ask the player to roll a die to
help determine what happens. Describing the results often leads to another decision point, which
brings the game back to step 1.
This pattern holds during every game session (each
time you sit down to play D&D), whether the adventurers are talking to a noble, exploring a ruin, or
fighting a dragon. In certain situations-particularly
combat-the action is more structured, and everyone takes turns.
EXCEPTIONS SUPERSEDE GENERAL RULES
General rules govern each part of the game. For
example, the combat rules tell you that melee
attacks use Strength and ranged attacks use
Dexterity. That's a general rule, and a general
rule is in effect as long as something in the game
doesn't explicitly say otherwise.
The game also includes elements-class features, feats, weapon properties, spells, magic
items, monster abilities, and the like-that sometimes contradict a general rule. When an exception and a general rule disagree, the exception
wins. For example, if a feature says you can make
melee attacks using your Charisma, you can do
so, even though that statement disagrees with
the general rule.
CHAPTER I I PLAYING THE GAME
AN ONGOING GAME
Sometimes a session of D&D is a complete game in
itself (often called a "one-shot"}, where you play a
short adventure that lasts for just one session. More
often, though, D&D sessions are connected in a
longer adventure that takes several sessions to complete, and adventures can be strung together into a
larger narrative called a campaign.
A campaign is like a TV series, while an adventure
is like a season of the series. And a game session is
like a single episode- it might be self-contained, but
it usually links to the larger plot if there is one.
ADVENTURES
An adventure might be created by the Dungeon
Master or purchased (the examples of play in this
chapter are inspired by a published adventure, Curse
of Strahd). In either case, an adventure features a
fantastic setting, such as an underground dungeon,
a wondrous wilderness, or a magic-filled city. It includes a cast of non player characters controlled by
the DM. Often one of the NPCs is a villain whose
agenda drives much of an adventure's action.
During an adventure, the adventurers explore
environments, events, and creatures presented by
the DM. Battles, traps, negotiations, mysteries, and
more arise during these explorations.
Adventures vary in length and complexity. A
short adventure might present only a few challenges
and take only one session to complete. A long adventure might involve many combats, interactions,
and other challenges and take dozens of sessions.
CAMPAIGNS
A campaign is a series of adventures with a consistent group of adventurers following the narrative.
Some campaigns are episodic, where each adventure is its own tale and not much besides the player
characters links it to the next one. Other campaigns
involve long-running plots, a cast of recurring
NPCs, and themes that span multiple adventures,
leading toward a climactic conclusion.
As with adventures, a DM might create a campaign from scratch, assemble a campaign from
published adventures, or mix homemade material
with published material. And the campaign might
take place in a world of the DM's creation or in a
published campaign setting, such as the Forgotten
Realms or Greyhawk (the latter is described in the
Dungeon Master's Guide).
ROUND DOWN
Whenever you divide or multiply a number in the
game, round down if you end up with a fraction,
even if the fraction is one-half or greater. Some
rules make an exception and tell you to round up.
