# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 105/387

WARRIOR OF THE ELEM E NTS
Wield Strikes and Bursts of Elemental Power
Warriors of the Elements tap into the power of the
Elemental Planes. Harnessing their supernatural
focus, these Monks momentarily tame the energy of
the Elemental Chaos to empower themselves in and
out of battle.
LEVEL 3: ELEMENTALATTUNEMENT
At the start of your turn, you can expend l Focus
Point to imbue yourself with elemental energy. The
energy lasts for 10 minutes or until you have the
Incapacitated condition. You gain the following benefits while this feature is active.
Reach. When you make an Unarmed Strike, your
reach is 10 feet greater than normal, as elemental
energy extends from you.
Elemental Strikes. Whenever you hit with your
Unarmed Strike, you can cause it to deal your
choice of Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Thunder
damage rather than its normal damage type. When
-you deal one of these types with it, you can also
force the target to make a Strength saving throw.
On a failed save, you can move the target up to 10
feet toward or away from you, as elemental energy
swirls around it.
LEVEL 3: MANIPULATE ELEMENTS
You know the Elementalism spell. Wisdom is your
spellcasting ability for it.
LEVEL 6: ELEMENTAL BURST
As a Magic action, you can expend 2 Focus Points to
cause elemental energy to burst in a 20-foot-radius
Sphere centered on a point within 120 feet of yourself. Choose a damage type: Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Thunder.
Each creature in the Sphere must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes
damage of the chosen type equal to three rolls of
your Martial Arts die. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage.
LEVEL 11: STRIDE OF THE ELEM ENTS
While your Elemental Attunement is active, you
also have a Fly Speed and a Swim Speed equal to
your Speed.
LEVEL 17: ELEMENTAL EPITOM E
While your Elemental Attunement is active, you
also gain the following benefits.
Damage Resistance. You gain Resistance to one of
the following damage types of your choice: Acid,
Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Thunder. At 1.1, start of
each of your turns, you can change t!, i:; choice.
Destructive Stride. When you use you 1· Step of the
Wind, your Speed increases by 20 fot:t u ntil the end
