# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 367/387

HAZARD
A hazard is an environmental danger. See also
"Burning," "Dehydration," "Falling," "Malnutrition,"
and "Suffocation."
---------:::;...-
HEALING
Healing is how you regain Hit Points. See also chapter 1 ("Damage and Healing").
----
------ ---~
HEAVILY OBSCURED
You have the Blinded condition while trying to see
something in a Heavily Obscured space. See also
"Blinded," "Darkness," and chapter 1 ("Exploration").
- - -- -- - -
-- -
-
- --
HELP [ACTION]
When you take the Help action, you do one of the
following.
Assist an Ability Check. Choose one of your
skill or tool proficiencies and one ally who is near
enough for you to assist verbally or physically when
they make an ability check. That ally has Advantage
on the next ability check they make with the chosen
skill or tool. This benefit expires if the ally doesn't
use it before the start of your next turn. The DM
has final say on whether your assistance is possible.
Assist an Attack Roll. You momentarily distract
an enemy within 5 feet of you, giving Advantage to
the next attack roll by one of your allies against that
enemy. This benefit expires at the start of your next
turn.
HEROIC INSPIRATION
If you (a player character) have Heroic Inspiration,
you can expend it to reroll any die immediately after
rolling it, and you must use the new roll.
If you gain Heroic Inspiration but already have it,
it's lost unless you give it to a player character who
lacks it.
HIDE [ACTION]
With the Hide action, you try to conceal yourself.
To do so, you must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity
(Stealth) check while you're Heavily Obscured or
behind Three-Quarters Cover or Total Cover, and
you must be out of any enemy's line of sight; if you
can see a creature, you can discern whether it can
see you.
On a successful check, you have the Invisible condition. Make note of your check's total, which is the
DC for a creature to find you with a Wisdom (Perception) check.
368
APPENDIX CI RULES GLOSSARY
The condition ends on you immediately aft~:- any
of the following occurs: you make a sound IOi.!Cter
than a whisper, an enemy finds you, you make
an attack roll, or you cast a spell with a Verbal
component.
r.. -
-
---
-
HIGHjUMP
When you make a High Jump, you leap into the
air a number of feet equal to 3 plus your Strength
modifier (minimum of O feet) if you move at least
10 feet on foot immediately before the jump. When
you make a standing High Jump, you can jump only
half that distance. Either way, each foot of the jump
costs a foot of movement.
You can extend your arms half your height above
yourself during the jump. Thus, you can reach a distance equal to the height of the jump plus I½ times
your height.
_.,,,,..--- -
-- - -
HIT POINT DICE
Hit Point Dice, or Hit Dice for short, help determine a player character's Hit Point maximum, as
explained in chapter 2. Most monsters also have Hit
Dice. A creature can spend Hit Dice during a Short
Rest to regain Hit Points. See also "Short Rest."
HIT POINTS
Hit Points (HP) are a measure of how difficult it is
to kill or destroy a creature or an object. Damage
reduces Hit Points, and healing restores them. You
can't have more Hit Points than your Hit Point
maximum, and you can't have less than 0. See also
"Breaking Objects" and chapter 1 ("Damage and
Healing").
HOSTILE [ATTITUDE]
A Hostile creature views you unfavorably. You have
Disadvantage on an ability check to influence a Hostile creature. See also "Influence."
HOVER
Some creatures can hover, as noted in their stat
blocks, and some spells and other effects grant the
ability to hover. Hovering while flying prevents
you from falling in certain circumstances. See also
"Flying."
