# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 279/387

than 10 feet in diameter. If the surface or object is
moved more than 10 feet from where you cast this
spell, the glyph is broken, and the spell ends without
being triggered.
The glyph is nearly imperceptible and requires a
successful Wisdom (Perception) check against your
spell save DC to notice.
When you inscribe the glyph, you set its trigger
and choose whether it's an explosive rune or a spell
glyph, as explained below.
Set the 1Hgger. You decide what triggers the glyph
when you cast the spell. For glyphs inscribed on a
surface, common triggers include touching or stepping on the glyph, removing another object covering it, or approaching within a certain distance of it.
For glyphs inscribed within an object, common triggers include opening that object or seeing the glyph.
Once a glyph is triggered, this spell ends.
You can refine the trigger so that only creatures
of certain types activate it (for example, the glyph
could be set to affect Aberrations). You can also set
conditions for creatures that don't trigger the glyph,
such as those who say a certain password.
Explosive Rune. When triggered, the glyph erupts
with magical energy in a 20-foot-radius Sphere
centered on the glyph. Each creature in the area
makes a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes
Sd8 Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Thunder damage
(your choice when you create the glyph) on a failed
save or half as much damage on a successful one.
Spell Glyph. You can store a prepared spell of
level 3 or lower in the glyph by casting it as part of
creating the glyph. The spell must target a single
creature or an area. The spell being stored has no
immediate effect when cast in this way.
When the glyph is triggered, the stored spell takes
effect. If the spell has a target, it targets the creature that triggered the glyph. If the spell affects an
area, the area is centered on that creature. If the
spell summons Hostile creatures or creates harmful
objects or traps, they appear as close as possible to
the intruder and attack it. If the spell requires Concentration, it lasts until the end of its full duration.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage of an
explosive rune increases by ld8 for each spell slot
level above 3. If you create a spell glyph, you can
store any spell of up to the same level as the spell
slot you use for the Glyph of Warding.
,,,oO
C H APT ER 7 I SPELLS
~ - -
r-
Go ODBERRY
Level 1 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a sprig of mistletoe)
Duration: 24 hours
Ten berries appear in your hand and are infused
with magic for the duration. A creature can tak
Bonus Ac~ion ~o eat one berry. Eating a berry ree- a
stores 1 Hit Pomt, and the berry provides enou h
"h
•
g
nouns ment to sustam a creature for one day.
Uneaten berries disappear when the spell ends.
GRASPING VINE
Level 4 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
You conjure a vine that sprouts from a surface in
an un?ccupied space that you can see within range.
The vme lasts for the duration.
Make a melee spell attack against a creature
within 30 feet of the vine. On a hit, the target takes
4d8 Bludgeoning damage and is pulled up to 30 feet
toward the vine; if the target is Huge or smaller
it has the Grappled condition (escape DC equal ~o
your spell save DC). The vine can grapple only one
creature at a time, and you can cause the vine to release a Grappled creature (no action required).
As a Bonus Action on your later turns, you can
repeat the attack against a creature within 30 feet
of the vine.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The number of
creatures the vine can grapple increases by one for
each spell slot level above 4.
GREASE
Level 1 Conjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bit of pork rind or butter)
Duration: 1 minute
Nonflammable grease covers the ground in a 10-foot
square centered on a point within range and turns it
into Difficult Terrain for the duration.
When the grease appears, each creature standing in its area must succeed on a Dexterity saving
throw or have the Pron~ condition. A creature that
enters the area or ends its t urn there must also succeed on that save or fa !l Prone.
