# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 126/387

b
0
"
Protect Nature and People f rom Destruction
You stalk prey in the wilds and elsewhere, using
your abilities as a Hunter to protect nature and
people everywhere from forces that would destroy them.
LEVEL 3 : HUNTER'S LORE
You can call on the forces of nature to reveal certain strengths and weaknesses of
your prey. While a creature is marked by
your Hunter's Mark, you know whether
that creature has any Immunities, Resistances, or Vulnerabilities, and if the creature has any, you know what they are.
LEVEL 3: HUNTER'S PREY
You gain one of the following feature options of your choice. Whenever you finish
a Short or Long Rest, you can replace the
chosen option with the other one.
Colossus Slayer. Your tenacity can wear
down even the most resilient foes. When
you hit a creature with a weapon, the weapon
deals an extra ld8 damage to the target if it's
missing any of its Hit Points. You can deal this
extra damage only once per turn.
Horde Breaker. Once on each of your turns when
you make an attack with a weapon, you can make
another attack with the same weapon against a different creature that is within 5 feet of the original
target, that is within the weapon's range, and that
you haven't attacked this turn.
LEVEL 7: D EFENSIVE T ACTICS
You gain one of the following feature options of
7
your choice. Whenever you finish a Short or Long ,{ ,
Rest, you can replace the chosen option with
the other one.
Escape the Horde. Opportunity Attacks
have Disadvantage against you.
Multiattack Defense. When a creature
hits you with an attack roll, that creature
has Disadvantage on all other attack rolls
against you this turn.
LEVEL 11: SUPERIOR H UNTER'S PREY
Once per turn when you deal damage to a creature
marked by your Hunter's Mark, you can also deal
that spell's extra damage to a different creature that
you can see within 30 feet of the first creature.
LEVEL 15: Su PER IOR H UNTER'S D EFENSE
When you l'a h~ damage, you can take a Reaction
to give yoi:r:-:d f Resistance to that damage and any
other dam,;i:e of the same type until the end of the
current tt 1·1;
