# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 315/387

SHATTER
Level 2 Evocation (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a chip of mica)
Duration: Instantaneous
A loud noise erupts from a point of your choice
within range. Each creature in a 10-foot-radius
Sphere centered there makes a Constitution saving
throw, taking 3d8 Thunder damage on a failed save
or half as much damage on a successful one. A Construct has Disadvantage on the save.
A nonmagical object that isn't being worn or carried also takes the damage if it's in the spell's area.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage increases by ld8 for each spell slot level above 2.
SHIELD
Level 1 Abjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Reaction, which you take when you are
hit by an attack roll or targeted by the Magic Missile
spell
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: l round
An imperceptible barrier of magical force protects
you. Until the start of your next turn, you have a +5
bonus to AC, including against the triggering attack,
and you take no damage from Magic Missile.
SHIELD OF FAITH
Level 1 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a prayer scroll)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
A shimmering field surrounds a creature of your
choice within range, granting it a +2 bonus to AC
for the duration.
SHILLELAGH
Transmutation Cantrip (Druid)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (mistletoe)
Duration: 1 minute
A Club or Quarterstaff you are holding is imbued
with nature's power. For the duration, you can use
your spellcasting ability instead of Strength for the
attack and damage rolls of melee attacks using that
'llh
l" i.t A PTS:-R 7 I S.P ELI.S.
weapon, and the weapon's damage die b,... crnes a d8.
If the attack deals damage, it can be Force damage
or the weapon's normal damage ty pe (your choice).
The spell ends early if you cast it again or if you
let go of the weapon.
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage die changes when
you reach levels 5 (dlO), 11 (dl2), and 17 (2d6).
SHINING SMITE
Level 2 Transmutation (Paladin)
Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immediately after hitting a creature with a Melee weapon or
an Unarmed Strike
Range: Self
Component: V
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
The target hit by the strike takes an extra 2d6 Radiant damage from the attack. Until the spell ends, the
target sheds Bright Light in a 5-foot radius, attack
rolls against it have Advantage, and it can't benefit
from the Invisible condition.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage increases by ld6 for each spell slot level above 2.
SHOCKING GRASP
Evocation Cantrip (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Lightning springs from you to a creature that you
try to touch. Make a melee spell attack against the
target. On a hit, the target takes ld8 Lightning damage, and it can't make Opportunity Attacks until the
start of its next turn.
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by ld8
when you reach levels 5 (2d8), 11 (3d8), and 17 (4d8).
SILENCE
Level 2 Illusion (Bard, Cleric, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
For the duration, no sound can be created within
or pass through a 20-foot-radius Sphere centered
on a point you choose within range. Any creature
or object entirely inside the Sphere has Immunity
to Thunder damage, and creatures have the Deafened condition while entirely in:·ide it. Casting a
spell that includes a Verbal component is impossible
there.
