# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 90/387

;
z
0
0 z
<
~
0 .. e
~
z
C ORE FIGHT ER TRA ITS
Primary Ability
Hit Point Die
Saving Throw
Proficiencies
Skill Proficiencies
Weapon Proficiencies
Armor Training
Starting Equipment
• L _:; . -
-
Strength or Dexterity
Dl O per Fighter level
Strength and Constitution
Choose 2: Acrobatics, Animal
Handli ng, Athletics, History,
Insight, Intimidation, Persuasion, Perception, or Survival
Simple and Martial weapons
Light, Medium, and Heavy
armor and Shields
Choose A, B, or C: (A) Chain
Mail, Greatsword, Flail,
8 Javelins, Dungeoneer's
Pack, and 4 GP; (B) Studded
Leather Armor, Scimitar,
Shortsword, Longbow, 20 Arrows, Quiver, Dungeoneer's
Pack, and 11 GP; or (C)
155 GP
I
JGHTERS RULE MANY BATTLEFIELDS.
j ~ Questing knights, royal champions, elite sol-
_J.,
diers, and hardened mercenaries-as Fighters,
they all share an unparalleled prowess with weapons and armor. And they are well acquainted with
death, both meting it out and defying it.
Fighters master various weapon techniques, and
a well-equipped Fighter always has the right tool at
hand for any combat situation. Likewise, a Fighter is
adept with every form of armor. Beyond that basic
degree of familiarity, each Fighter specializes in certain styles of combat. Some concentrate on archery,
some on fighting with two weapons at once, and
some on augmenting their martial skills with magic.
This combination of broad ability and extensive specialization makes Fighters superior combatants.
BECOMING A FIGHTER ...
A s A L EVEL 1 CHARACTER
Gain all the traits in the Core Fighter Traits table.
• Gain the Fighter's level 1 features, which are listed
in the Fighter Features table.
As A M ULTICLASS CHARACTER
Gain the following traits from the Core Fighter
Traits table: Hit Point Die, proficiency with Martial weapons, and training with Light and Medium
armor and Shields.
Gain the Fighter's level 1 features, which are listed
in the Fighter Features table.
FIGHTER CLASS FEATURES
As a Fighter, you gain the following class features
when you reach the specified Fighter levels. These
features are listed on the Fighter Features table.
LEVEL l: FIGHTING STYLE
You have honed your martial prowess and gain a
Fighting Style feat of your choice {see chapter 5).
Defense is recommended.
Whenever you gain a Fighter level, you can replace the feat you chose with a different Fighting
Style feat.
LEVEL l : SECOND WIND
You have a limited well of physical and mental
stamina that you can draw on. As a Bonus Action,
you can use it to regain Hit Points equal to ldlO plus
your Fighter level.
You can use this feature twice. You regain one
expended use when you finish a Short Rest, and you
regain all expended uses when you finish a Long
Rest.
When you reach certain Fighter levels, you gain
more uses of this feature, as shown in the Second
Wind column of the Fighter Features table .
LEVEL l: WEAPON MASTERY
Your training with weapons allows you to use the
mastery properties of three kinds of Simple or Martial weapons of your choice. Whenever you finish
a Long Rest, you can practice weapon drills and
change one of those weapon choices.
When you reach certain Fighter levels, you gain
the ability to use the mastery properties of more
kinds of weapons, as shown in the Weapon Mastery
column of the Fighter Features table.
LEVEL 2: ACTION SURGE
You can push yourself beyond your normal limits
for a moment. On your turn, you can take one additional action, except the Magic action.
Once you use this feature, you can't do so again
until you finish a Short or Long Rest. Starting at
level 17, you can use it twice before a rest but only
once on a turn.
LEVEL 2: TACTICAL MIND
You have a mind for tactics on and off the battlefield. When you fail an ability check, you can expend a use of your Second Wind to push yourself
toward success. Rather than regaining Hit Points,
you roll ldlO and add the number rolled to the ability check, potentially turning it into a success. If
the check still fails, this use of Second Wind isn't
expended.
i I
I
'i
CHAPTE R 3 I CH ARACTER CLASSES
91
