# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 154/387

LEVE L :\-. A BILITY S C ORE IMPROVEMENT
You gai n the Ability Score Improvement feat (see
chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which
you qualify. You gain this feature again at Warlock
levels 8, 12, and 16.
LEVEL 9 : CONTACT PATRON
In the past, you usually contacted your patron
through intermediaries. Now you can communicate
directly; you always have the Contact Other Plane
spell prepared. With this feature, you can cast the
spell without expending a spell slot to contact your
patron, and you automatically succeed on the spell's
saving throw.
Once you cast the spell with this feature, you can't
do so in this way again until you finish a Long Rest.
LEVEL 11: MYSTIC ARCANUM
Your patron grants you a magical secret called an
arcanum. Choose one level 6 Warlock spell as this
arcanum.
You can cast your arcanum spell once without expending a spell slot, and you must finish a Long Rest
before you can cast it in this way again.
As shown in the Warlock Features table, you gain
another Warlock spell of your choice that can be
cast in this way when you reach Warlock levels 13
(level 7 spell), 15 (level 8 spell), and 17 (level 9 spell).
You regain all uses of your Mystic Arcanum when
you finish a Long Rest.
Whenever you gain a Warlock level, you can replace one of your arcanum spells with another Warlock spell of the same level.
LEVEL 19: EPIC BOON
You gain an Epic Boon feat (see chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which you qualify.
Boon of Fate is recommended.
L EVEL 20: ELD RITCH MASTER
When you use your Magical Cunning feature, you
regain all your expended Pact Magic spell slots.
E LDRITCH INVOCATION OPTIONS
Eldritch Invocation options appear in alphabetical
order.
AG O NIZING BLAST
Prerequisite: Level 2+ Warlock, a Warlock Cantrip That
Deals Damage
Choose one of your known Warlock cantrips that
deals damage. You can add your Charisma modifier
to that spell's damage rolls.
Repeatable. You can gain this invocation more
than once. Each time you do so, choose a different
eligible can.trip.
ARMOR OF SHADOWS
You can cast Mage Armor on yourself without expending a spell slot.
ASCENDANT STEP
Prerequisite: Level 5+ Warlock
You can cast Levitate on yourself without expending
a spell slot.
DEVIL'S SIGHT
Prerequisite: Level 2+ Warlock
You can see normally in Dim Light and Darknessboth magical and nonmagical-within 120 feet of
yourself.
DEVOURING BLADE
Prerequisite: Level 12+ Warlock, Thirsting Blade
Invocation
The Extra Attack of your Thirsting Blade invocation confers two extra attacks rather than one.
ELDRITCH MIND
You have Advantage on Constitution saving throws
that you make to maintain Concentration.
ELDRITCH SMITE
Prerequisite: Level 5+ Warlock, Pact of the Blade
Invocation
Once per turn when you hit a creature with your
pact weapon, you can expend a Pact Magic spell slot
to deal an extra ld8 Force damage to the target, plus
another ld8 per level of the spell slot, and you can
give the target the Prone condition if it is Huge or
smaller.
ELDRITCH SPEAR
Prerequisite: Level 2+ Warlock, a Warlock Cantrip That
Deals Damage
Choose one of your known Warlock cantrips that
deals damage and has a range of 10+ feet. When you
cast that spell, its range increases by a number of
feet equal to 30 times your Warlock level.
Repeatable. You can gain this invocation more
than once. Each time you do so, choose a different
eligible cantrip.
FIENDISH VIGOR
Prerequisite: Level 2+ Warlock
You can cast False Life on yourself without expending a spell slot. When you cast the spell with this
feature, you don't roll the die for the Temporary Hit
Points; you automatically get the highest number on
the die.
CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTE R CLASSES
155
