# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 188/387

ELF
Created by the god Corellon, the first elves could
change their forms at will. They lost this ability
when Corellon cursed them for plotting with the
deity Lolth, who tried and failed to usurp Corellon's
dominion. When Lolth was cast into the Abyss,
most elves renounced her and earned Corellon's forgiveness, but that which Corellon had taken from
them was lost forever.
No longer able to shape-shift at will, the elves
retreated to the Feywild, where their sorrow was
deepened by that plane's influence. Over time, curiosity led many of them to explore other planes of
existence, including worlds in the Material Plane.
Elves have pointed ears and lack facial and body
hair. They live for around 750 years, and they don't
sleep but instead enter a trance when they need to
rest. In that state, they remain aware of their surroundings while immersing themselves in memories
and meditations.
An environment subtly transforms elves after
they inhabit it for a millennium or more, and it
grants them certain kinds of magic. Drow, high
elves, and wood elves are examples of elves who
have been transformed thus.
DROW
Drow typically dwell in the Underdark and have
been shaped by it. Some drow individuals and societies avoid the Underdark altogether yet carry its
magic. In the Eberron setting, for example, drow
dwell in rainforests and cyclopean ruins on the continent of Xen'drik.
HIGH ELVES
High elves have been infused with the magic of
crossings between the FeY'vild and the Material
Plane. On some worlds, high elves refer to themselves by other names. For example, they call themselves sun or moon elves in the Forgotten Realms
setting, Silvanesti and Qualinesti in the Dragonlance setting, and Aereni in the Eberron setting.
Woon ELVES
Wood elves carry the magic of primeval forests
within themselves. They are known by many other
names, including wild elves, green elves, and forest
elves. Grugach are reclusive wood elves of the Greyhawk setting, while the Kagonesti and the Tairnadal
are wood elves of the Dragonlance and Eberron settings, respectively.
CHAPTER 4 I CHARACTER ORIGINS
189
