# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 292/387

LOCATE O eJECT
Level 2 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger,
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a forked twig)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Describe or name an object that is familiar to you.
You sense the direction to the object's location
if that object is within 1,000 feet of you. If the
object is in motion, you know the direction of its
movement.
The spell can locate a specific object known to you
if you have seen it up close-within 30 feet-at least
once. Alternatively, the spell can locate the nearest
object of a particular kind, such as a certain kind of
apparel, jewelry, furniture, tool, or weapon.
This spell can't locate an object if any thickness
of lead blocks a direct path between you and the
object.
L0NGSTRIDER
Level J Transmutation (Bard, Druid, Ranger, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of dirt)
Duration: l hour
You touch a creature. The target's Speed increases
by 10 feet until the spell ends.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one
additional creature for each spell slot level above 1.
MAGE A R MOR
Level 1 Abjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (a piece of cured leather)
Duration: 8 hours
You touch a willing creature who isn't wearing
armor. Until the spell ends, the target's base AC becomes 13 plus its Dexterity modifier. The spell ends
early if the target dons armor.
MAGE HAND
Conjuration Cantrip (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: l minute
A spectral, floating hand appears at a point you
choose within range. The hand lasts for the duration. The hand vanishes if it is ever more than 30
feet away from you or if you cast this spell again.
When you cast the spell, you can use the hand
to manipulate an object, open an unlocked door or
container, stow or retrieve an item from an open
container, or pour the contents out of a vial.
As a Magic action on your later turns, you can
control the hand thus again. As part of that action,
you can move the hand up to 30 feet.
The hand can't attack, activate magic items, or
carry more than 10 pounds.
MAGIC CIRCLE
Level 3 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: l minute
Range: l O feet
Components: V, S, M (salt and powdered silver worth
100+ GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: l hour
You create a 10-foot-radius, 20-foot-tall Cylinder of
magical energy centered on a point on the ground
that you can see within range. Glowing runes appear wherever the Cylinder intersects with the floor
or other surface.
Choose one or more of the following types of
creatures: Celestials, Elementals, Fey, Fiends, or
Undead. The circle affects a creature of the chosen
type in the following ways:
• The creature can't willingly enter the Cylinder
by nonmagical means. If the creature tries to use
teleportation or interplanar travel to do so, it must
first succeed on a Charisma saving throw.
• The creature has Disadvantage on attack rolls
against targets within the Cylinder.
• Targets within the Cylinder can't be possessed
by or gain the Charmed or Frightened condition
from the creature.
Each time you cast this spell, you can cause its
magic to operate in the reverse direction, preventing a creature of the specified type from leaving the
Cylinder and protecting targets outside it.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The duration increases by 1 hour for each spell slot level above 3.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
293
