# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 250/387

or seen before) or in an obvious location that is
unfamiliar to you (such as behind a door, around a
corner, or in a grove of trees). The intangible, invulnerable sensor remains in place for the duration.
When you cast the spell, choose seeing or hearing.
You can use the chosen sense through the sensor as
if you were in its space. As a Bonus Action, you can
switch between seeing and hearing.
A creature that sees the sensor (such as a creature
benefiting from See Invisibility or Truesight) sees a
luminous orb about the size of your fist.
CLON E
Level 8 Necromancy (Wizard)
Casting Time: l hour
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth l,000+ GP,
which the spell consumes, and a sealable vessel
worth 2,000+ GP that is large enough to hold the
creature being cloned)
Duration: Instantaneous
You touch a creature or at least 1 cubic inch of its
flesh. An inert duplicate of that creature forms
inside the vessel used in the spell's casting and finishes growing after 120 days; you choose whether
the finished clone is the same age as the creature or
younger. The clone remains inert and endures indefinitely while its vessel remains undisturbed.
If the original creature dies after the clone finishes forming, the creature's soul transfers to the
clone if the soul is free and willing to return. The
clone is physically identical to the original and has
the same personality, memories, and abilities, but
none of the original's equipment. The creature's
original remains, if any, become inert and can't be
revived, since the creature's soul is elsewhere.
CLOU DKILL
Level 5 Conjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You create a 20-foot-radius Sphere of yellow-green
fog centered on a point within range. The fog lasts
for the duration or until strong wind (such as the
one created by Gust of Wind) disperses it, ending the
spell. Its area is l Ieavily Obscured.
Each creature in the Sphere makes a Constitution
saving throw, i ,,king Sd8 Poison damage on a failed
save or half .is rnuch damage on a successful one. A
creature mus 1. :,I :o make this save when the Sphere
moves into its .. :,·,,ce and when it enters the Sphere
or ends its turn there. A creature makes this save
only once per turn.
The Sphere moves 10 feet away from you at the
start of each of your turns.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage increases by ld8 for each spell slot level above 5.
CLOUD OF DAGGERS
Level 2 Conjuration (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a sliver of glass)
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
You conjure spinning daggers in a 5-foot Cube
centered on a point within range. Each creature in
that area takes 4d4 Slashing damage. A creature
also takes this damage if it enters the Cube or ends
its turn there or if the Cube moves into its space. A
creature takes this damage only once per turn.
On your later turns, you can take a Magic action
to teleport the Cube up to 30 feet.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage increases by 2d4 for each spell slot level above 2.
COLOR SPRAY
Level 1 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of colorful sand)
Duration: Instantaneous
You launch a dazzling array of flashing, colorful
light. Each creature in a 15-foot Cone originating
from you must succeed on a Constitution saving
throw or have the Blinded condition until the end of
your next turn.
C OMMAND
Level 1 Enchantment (Bard, Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
You speak a one-word command to a creature you
can see within range. The target must succeed on a
Wisdom saving throw or follow the command on its
next turn. Choose the command from these options:
Approach. The target moves toward you by the
shortest and most direct route, ending its turn if it
moves within S feet of you.
Drop. The target drops whatever it is holding and
then ends its turn.
CHA PT ER 7 I SPELLS
