# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 254/387

CONJURE 1:·EY
Level 6 Conjuration (Druid)
casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You conjure a Medium spirit from the Feywild in
an unoccupied space you can see within range. The
spirit lasts for the duration, and it looks like a Fey
creature of your choice. When the spirit appears,
you can make one melee spell attack against a creature within 5 feet of it. On a hit, the target takes
Psychic damage equal to 3d12 plus your spellcasting
ability modifier, and the target has the Frightened
condition until the start of your next turn, with
both you and the spirit as the source of the fear.
As a Bonus Action on your later turns, you can
teleport the spirit to an unoccupied space you can
see within 30 feet of the space it left and make the
attack against a creature within 5 feet of it.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage increases by 2d12 for each spell slot level above 6.
CONJURE MINOR ELEMENTALS
Level 4 Conjuration (Druid, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You conjure spirits from the Elemental Planes that
flit around you in a 15-foot Emanation for the duration. Until the spell ends, any attack you make deals
an extra 2d8 damage when you hit a creature in
the Emanation. This damage is Acid, Cold, Fire, or
Lightning (your choice when you make the attack).
In addition, the ground in the Emanation is Difficult Terrain for your enemies.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage increases by 2d8 for each spell slot level above 4.
r.
CONJURE VOLLEY
Level 5 Conjuration (Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: l SO feet
Components: V, S, M (a Melee or Ranged weapon
worth at least l CP)
Duration: Instantaneous
You brandish t:H! weapon used to cast the spell and
choose a poit1t v-;ithin range. Hundreds of similar
spectral we::ipr.-rts (or ammunition appropriate to
the weapon) '.·.-. :1 in a volley and then disappear.
Each creature of your choice that you can see in a
40-foot-radius, 20-foot-high Cylinder centered on
that point makes a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 8d8 Force damage on a failed save or half
as much damage on a successful one.
P"
CONJURE WOODLAND BEINGS
Level 4 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You conjure nature spirits that flit around you in a
10-foot Emanation for the duration. Whenever the
Emanation enters the space of a creature you can
see and whenever a creature you can see enters the
Emanation or ends its turn there, you can force that
creature to make a Wisdom saving throw. The creature takes Sd8 Force damage on a failed save or half
as much damage on a successful one. A creature
makes this save only once per turn.
In addition, you can take the Disengage action as a
Bonus Action for the spell's duration.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage increases by ld8 for each spell slot level above 5.
CONTACT OTHER PLANE
Level 5 Divination (Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: l minute or Ritual
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: l minute
You mentally contact a demigod, the spirit of a
long-dead sage, or some other knowledgeable entity
from another plane. Contacting this otherworldly
intelligence can break your mind. When you cast
this spell, make a DC 15 Intelligence saving throw.
On a successful save, you can ask the entity up to
five questions. You must ask your questions before
the spell ends. The DM answers each question with
one word, such as "yes," "no," "maybe," "never," "irrelevant," or "unclear" (if the entity doesn't know
the answer to the question). If a one-word answer
would be misleading, the DM might instead offer a
short phrase as an answer.
On a failed save, you take 6d6 Psycl-.ic damage
and have the Incapacitated condition until you finish a Long Rest. A Greater Restoration spell cast on
you ends this effect.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
255
