# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 146/387

0
You can use this feature a number of times equal
to your Charisma modifier (minimum of once),
and you regain all expended uses when you finish a
Long Rest.
LEVEL 6 : BASTION OF LAW
You can tap into the grand equation of existence to
imbue a creature with a shimmering shield of order.
As a Magic action, you can expend 1 to 5 Sorcery
Points to create a magical ward around yourself
or another creature you can see within 30 feet of
yourself. The ward is represented by a number of
d8s equal to the number of Sorcery Points spent to
create it. When the warded creature takes damage,
it can expend a number of those dice, roll them,
and reduce the damage taken by the total rolled on
those dice.
The ward lasts until you finish a Long Rest or until you use this feature again.
L EVEL 14: TRANCE OF ORDER
You gain the ability to align your consciousness
with the endless calculations of Mechanus. As a
Bonus Action, you can enter this state for 1 minute.
For the duration, attack rolls against you can't benefit from Advantage, and whenever you make a D20
Test, you can treat a roll of 9 or lower on the d20 as
a 10.
Once you use this feature, you can't use it again
until you finish a Long Rest unless you spend 5 Sorcery Points (no action required) to restore your use
of it.
LEVEL 18: CLOCKWORK CAVALCADE
You momentarily summon spirits of order to expunge disorder around you. As a Magic action, you
summon the spirits in a 30-foot Cube originating
from you. The spirits look like modrons or other
Constructs of your choice. The spirits are intangible
and invulnerable, and they create the effects below
within the Cube before vanishing. Once you use this
action, you can't use it again until you finish a Long
Rest unless you spend 7 Sorcery Points (no action
required) to restore your use of it.
Heal. The spirits restore up to 100 Hit Points,
divided as you choose among any number of creatures of your choice in the Cube.
Repair. Any damaged objects entirely in the Cube
are repaired instantly.
Dispel. Every spell of level 6 and lower ends on
creatures and objects of your choice in the Cube.
