# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 160/387

.:.
LEVEL 10: C ELESTI A L RESILIENCE
You gain Temporary Hit Points whenever you use
your Magica l Cunning feature or finish a Short
or Long Rest. These Temporary Hit Points equal
your Warlock level plus your Charisma modifier.
Additionally, choose up to five creatures you can
see when you gain the points. Those creatures each
gain Temporary Hit Points equal to half your Warlock level plus your Charisma modifier.
LEVEL 14 : SEARING VENGEANC E
When you or an ally within 60 feet of you is about
to make a Death Saving Throw, you can unleash radiant energy to save the creature. The creature regains Hit Points equal to half its Hit Point maximum
and can end the Prone condition on itself. Each
creature of your choice that is within 30 feet of the
creature takes Radiant damage equal to 2d8 plus
your Charisma modifier, and each has the Blinded
condition until the end of the current turn.
Once you use this feature, you can't use it again
until you finish a Long Rest.
FIEND PATRON
Make a Deal with the Lower Planes
Your pact draws on the Lower Planes, the realms of
perdition. You might forge a bargain with a demon
lord such as Demogorgon or Orcus; an archdevil
such as Asmodeus; or a pit fiend, balor, yugoloth,
or night hag that is especially mighty. That patron's
aims are evil-the corruption or destruction of all
things, ultimately including you-and your path is
defined by the extent to which you strive against
those aims.
LEVEL 3: DARK ONE 'S BLESSING
When you reduce an enemy to O Hit Points, you
gain Temporary Hit Points equal to your Charisma
modifier plus your Warlock level (minimum of 1
Temporary Hit Point). You also gain this benefit if
someone else reduces an enemy within 10 feet of
you to 0 Hit Points.
L EV EL 3: FIEND SPELLS
The magic of your patron ensures you always have
certain spells ready; when you reach a Warlock level
specified in the Fiend Spells table, you thereafter
always have the listed spells prepared.
FIEND SPELL S
Warlock Level Spells
3
5
7
9
Burning Hands, Command,
Scorching Ray, Suggestion
Fireball, Stinking Cloud
Fire Shield, Wall of Fire
Geas, Insect Plague
