# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 106/387

()
of ti ,e turn. For that duration, any creature of your
choice takes damage equal to one roll of your Martial Arts die when you enter a space within 5 feet
of it. The damage type is your choice of Acid, Cold,
Fire, Lightning, or Thunder. A creature can take
this damage only once per turn.
Empowered Strikes. Once on each of your turns,
you can deal extra damage to a target equal to one
roll of your Martial Arts die when you hit it with an
Unarmed Strike. The extra damage is the same type
dealt by that strike.
WARRIOR OF THE OPEN HAND
Mast-er Unarmed Combat Techniques
Warriors of the Open Hand are masters of unarmed
combat. They learn techniques to push and trip
their opponents and manipulate their own energy
to protect themselves from harm.
LEVEL 3: OPEN HAND TECHNIQUE
Whenever you hit a creature with an attack granted
by your Flurry of Blows, you can impose one of the
following effects on that target.
Addle. The target can't make Opportunity Attacks
until the start of its next turn.
Push. The target must succeed on a Strength saving throw or be pushed up to 15 feet away from you.
Topple. The target must succeed on a Dexterity
saving throw or have the Prone condition.
LEVEL 6: WHOLENESS OF BODY
You gain the ability to heal yourself. As a Bonus Action, you can roll your Martial Arts die. You regain
a number of Hit Points equal to the number rolled
plus your Wisdom modifier (minimum of 1 Hit Point
regained).
You can use this feature a number of times equal
to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of once), and
you regain all expended uses when you finish a
Long Rest.
LEVEL 11: FLEET STEP
When you take a Bonus Action other than Step of
the Wind, you can also use Step of the Wind immediately after that Bonus Action.
LEV EL 17: QUIVERING PALM
You gain the ability to set up lethal vibrations in
someone's body. When you hit a creature with an
Unarmed Strike, you can expend 4 Focus Points to
start these imperceptible vibrations, which last for
a number of days equal to your Monk level. The
vibrations are harmless unless you take an action
to end them. Alternatively, when you take the Attack action on your turn, you can forgo one of the
attack~ to end the vibrations. To end them, you and
the target rnust be on the same plane of existence.
When you end them, the target must make a Constitution saving throw, taking 10d12 Force damage on
a failed save or half as much damage on a successful
one.
You can have only one creature under the effect
of this feature at a time. You can end the vibrations
harmlessly (no action required).
