# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 281/387

GUARDS AND WARDS
Level 6 Abjuration (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: l hour
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (a silver rod worth 10+ GP)
Duration: 24 hours
You create a ward that protects up to 2,500 square
feet of floor space. The warded area can be up to
20 feet tall, and you shape it as one SO-foot square,
one hundred 5-foot squares that are contiguous, or
twenty-five 10-foot squares that are contiguous.
When you cast this spell, you can specify individuals that are unaffected by the spell's effects.
You can also specify a password that, when spoken
aloud within 5 feet of the warded area, makes the
speaker immune to its effects.
The spell creates the effects below within the
warded area. Dispel Magic has no effect on Guards
and Wards itself, but each of the following effects
can be dispelled. If all four are dispelled, Guards and
Wards ends. If you cast the spell every day for 365
days on the same area, the spell thereafter lasts until all its effects are dispelled.
Corridors. Fog fills all the warded corridors, making them Heavily Obscured. In addition, at each
intersection or branching passage offering a choice
of direction, there is a SO percent chance that a
creature other than you believes it is going in the
opposite direction from the one it chooses.
Doors. All doors in the warded area are magically
locked, as if sealed by the Arcane Lock spell. In addition, you can cover up to ten doors with an illusion
to make them appear as plain sections of wall.
Stairs. Webs fill all stairs in the warded area from
top to bottom, as in the Web spell. These strands
regrow in 10 minutes if they are destroyed while
Guards and Wards lasts.
Other Spell Effect. Place one of the following magical effects within the warded area:
• Dancing Lights in four corridors, with a simple program that the lights repeat as long as Guards and
Wards lasts
• Magic Mouth in two locations
• Stinking Cloud in two locations {the vapors return
within 10 minutes if dispersed while Guards and
Wards lasts)
Gust of Wind in one corridor or room {the wind
blows continuously while the spell lasts)
• Suggestion in one 5-foot square; any creature
that enters that square receives the suggestion
mentally
GUIDANCE
Divination Cantrip (Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Component: V, S
Duration: Concentration , up to l minute
You touch a willing creature and choose a skill. Until the spell ends, the creature adds ld4 to any ab·lity check using the chosen skill.
1
GUIDING BOLT
Level 1 Evocation (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: l round
You hurl a bolt of light toward a creature within
range. Make a ranged spell attack against the tar t
On a hit, it takes 4d6 Radiant damage, and the ne~et •
attack roll made against it before the end of your
next turn has Advantage.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage increases by ld6 for each spell slot level above 1.
GUST OF WIND
Level 2 Evocation (Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a legume seed)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A Line of strong wind 60 feet long and 10 feet wide
blasts from you in a direction you choose for the
duration. Each creature in the Line must succeed on
a Strengt~ savi?g th_row or be pushed 15 feet away
from you m a direction following the Line. A creature that ends its turn in the Line must make the
same save.
Any creature in the Line must spend 2 feet of
movement for every 1 foot it moves when moving
closer to you.
The gust disperses gas or vapor, and it extinguishes candles and similar unprotected flames in
the area. It causes protected flames, such as those
of lanterns, to dance wildly and has a SO percent
chance to extinguish them.
As a Bonus Action on your later tu rns, you can
change the direction in w hich the Line blasts from
you.
