# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 341/387

Roll Redo. You undo a single recent event by forcing a reroll of any die roll made within the last
round {including your last turn). Reality reshapes
itself to accommodate the new result. For example, a Wish spell could undo an ally's failed saving
throw or a foe's Critical Hit. You can force the reroll to be made with Advantage or Disadvantage,
and you choose whether to use the reroll or the
original roll.
Reshape Reality. You may wish for something not
included in any of the other effects. To do so, state
your wish to the DM as precisely as possible. The
DM has great latitude in ruling what occurs in
such an instance; the greater the wish, the greater
the likelihood that something goes wrong. This
spell might simply fail, the effect you desire might
be achieved only in part, or you might suffer an
unforeseen consequence as a result of how you
worded the wish. For example, wishing that a
villain were dead might propel you forward in
time to a period when that villain is no longer
alive, effectively removing you from the game.
Similarly, wishing for a Legendary magic item or
an Artifact might instantly transport you to the
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
presence of the item's current owner. If your wish
is granted and its effects have consequences for a
whole community, region, or world, you are likely
to attract powerful foes. If your wish would affect
a god, the god's divine servants might instantly intervene to prevent it or to encourage you to craft
the wish in a particular way. If your wish would
undo the multiverse itself, threaten the City of
Sigil, or affect the Lady of Pain in any way, you
see an image of her in your mind for a moment;
she shakes her head, and your wish fails.
The stress of casting Wish to produce any effect
other than duplicating another spell weakens you.
After enduring that stress, each time you cast a spell
until you finish a Long Rest, you take ldlO Necrotic
damage per level of that spell. This damage can't be
reduced or prevented in any way. In addition, your
Strength score becomes 3 for 2d4 days. For each of
those days that you spend resting and doing nothing
more than light activity, your remaining recovery
time decreases by 2 days. Finally, there is a 33 percent chance that you are unable to cast Wish ever
again if you suffer this stress.
