# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 73/387

LEVEL 6: BLESSED HEALER
The healing spells you cast on others heal you as
well. Immediately after you cast a spell with a spell
slot that restores Hit Points to one or more creatures other than yourself, you regain Hit Points
equal to 2 plus the spell slot's level.
LEVEL 17: SUPREME HEALING
When you would normally roll one or more dice
to restore Hit Points to a creature with a spell or
Channel Divinity, don't roll those dice for the healing; instead use the highest number possible for
each die. For example, instead of restoring 2d6 Hit
Points to a creature with a spell, you restore 12.
LIGHT DOMAIN
Bring Light to Banish Darkness
-
The Light Domain emphasizes the divine puwer to
bring about blazing fire and revelation. Clel'ics who
wield this power are enlightened souls infused with
radiance and the power of their deities' discerning
vision, charged with chasing away lies and burning
away darkness.
The Light Domain is associated with gods of
truth, vigilance, beauty, insight, and renewal. Some
of these gods are identified with the sun or as charioteers who guide the sun across the sky. Others are
sentinels who pierce deception. Some are deities of
beauty and artistry who teach that art is a vehicle
for the soul's improvement.
LEVEL 3: LIGHT DOMAIN SPELLS
Your connection to this divine domain ensures you
always have certain spells ready. When you reach
a Cleric level specified in the Light Domain Spells
table, you thereafter always have the listed spells
prepared.
LIGHT DOMAIN SPELLS
Cleric Level
Prepared Spells
3
Burning Hands, Faerie Fire, Scorching
Ray, See Invisibility
5
Daylight, Fireball
7
Arcane Eye, Wall of Fire
9
Flame Strike, Scrying
LEVEL 3: RADIANCE OF THE DAWN
As a Magic action, you present your Holy Symbol
and expend a use of your Channel Divinity to emit
a flash of light in a 30-foot Emanation originating
from yourself. Any magical Darkness-such as that
created by the Darkness spell-in that area is dispelled. Additionally, each creature of your choice in
that area must make a Constitution saving throw,
taking Radiant damage equal to 2d10 plus your
Cleric level on a failed save or half as much damage
on a successful one.
LEVEL 3: WARDING FLARE
When a creature that you can see within 30 feet
of yourself makes an attack roll, you can take a Reaction to impose Disadvantage on the attack roll,
causing light to flare before it hits or misses.
You can use this feature a number of times equal
to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of once). You
regain all expended uses when you finish a Long
Rest.
