# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 202/387

CROSSBOW E XPERT
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Dexterity 13+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Sco1"e Increase. Increase your Dexterity
score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Ignore Loading. You ignore the Loading property
of the Hand Crossbow, Heavy Crossbow, and Light
Crossbow (all called crossbows elsewhere in this
feat). If you're holding one of them, you can load a
piece of ammunition into it even if you lack a free
hand.
Firing in Melee. Being within 5 feet of an enemy
doesn't impose Disadvantage on your attack rolls
with crossbows.
Dual Wielding. When you make the extra attack
of the Light property, you can add your ability
modifier to the damage of the extra attack if that attack is with a crossbow that has the Light property
and you aren't already adding that modifier to the
damage.
CRUSHER
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or
Constitution score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Push. Once per turn, when you hit a creature with
an attack that deals Bludgeoning damage, you can
move it 5 feet to an unoccupied space if the target is
no more than one size larger than you.
Enhanced Critical. When you score a Critical Hit
that deals Bludgeoning damage to a creature, attack
rolls against that creature have Advantage until the
start of your next turn.
DEF ENSIVE DUELIST
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Dexterity 13+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Dexterity
score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Parry. If you're holding a Finesse weapon and
another creature hits you with a melee attack, you
can take a Reaction to add your Proficiency Bonus
to your Armor Class, potentially causing the attack
to miss you. You gain this bonus to your AC against
me lee attacks until the start of your next turn.
DUAL WIELDER
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Strength or
Dexterity 13+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or
Dexterity score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Enhanced Dual Wielding. When you take the Attack action on your turn and attack with a weapon
that has the Light property, you can make one extra
attack as a Bonus Action later on the same turn
with a different weapon, which must be a Melee
weapon that lacks the Two-Handed property. You
don't add your ability modifier to the extra attack's
damage unless that modifier is negative.
Quick Draw. You can draw or stow two weapons that lack the Two-Handed property when you
would normally be able to draw or stow only one.
DURABLE
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Constitution
score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Defy Death. You have Advantage on Death Saving
Throws.
Speedy Recovery. As a Bonus Action, you can expend one of your Hit Point Dice, roll the die, and
regain a number of Hit Points equal to the roll.
ELEMENTAL ADEPT
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Spellcasting or Pact
Magic Feature)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Intelligence,
Wisdom, or Charisma score by 1. to a maximum of
20.
Energy Mastery. Choose one of the following damage types: Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Thunder.
Spells you cast ignore Resistance to damage of the
chosen type. In addition, when you roll damage for
a spell you cast that deals damage of that type, you
can treat any 1 on a damage die as a 2.
Repeatable. You can take this feat more than once,
but you must choose a different damage type each
time for Energy Mastery.
CHA PTER 5 I FEATS
203
