# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 298/387

Sound. If _.rou create a sound, its volume can
nge from a whisper to a scream. It can be your
ra
I •
•
1·
•
b
•
f
·ce someone e se s voice, a 10n s roar, a eatmg o
VOi
,
drums, or any other sound you choose. The sound
ontinues unabated throughout the duration, or you
~an make discrete sounds at different times before
the spell ends.
Image. If you create an image of an object-such
as a chair, muddy footprints, or a small chest-it
must be no larger than a 5-foot Cube. The image
can't create sound, light, smell, or any other sensory
effect. Physical interaction with the image reveals it
to be an illusion, since things can pass through it.
--- -
--
r,--
MIRAGE ARCANE
Level 7 Illusion (Bard, Druid, Wizard)
casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: Sight
Components: V, S
Duration: 10 days
You make terrain in an area up to 1 mile square
look, sound, smell, and even feel like some other
sort of terrain. Open fields or a road could be made
to resemble a swamp, hill, crevasse, or some other
rough or impassable terrain. A pond can be made to
seem like a grassy meadow, a precipice like a gentle
slope, or a rock-strewn gully like a wide and smooth
road.
Similarly, you can alter the appearance of structures or add them where none are present. The spell
doesn't disguise, conceal, or add creatures.
The illusion includes audible, visual, tactile, and
olfactory elements, so it can turn clear ground into
Difficult Terrain (or vice versa) or otherwise impede
movement through the area. Any piece of the illusory terrain (such as a rock or stick) that is removed
from the spell's area disappears immediately.
Creatures with Truesight can see through the illusion to the terrain's true form; however, all other elements of the illusion remain, so while the creature
is aware of the illusion's presence, the creature can
still physically interact with the illusion.
MIRROR IMAGE
Level 2 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: \/, S
Duration: l m inute
Three illusor y duplicates of yourself appear in your
space. Until tr, • spell ends, the duplicates move with
you and mi mit your actions, shifting position so it's
impossible to ~t- ,:k which image is real.
Each time a creature hits you with an attack roll
during the spell's duration, roll a d6 for each of your
remaining duplicates. If any of the d6s rolls a 3 or
higher, one of the duplicates is hit instead of you,
and the duplicate is destroyed. The duplicates otherwise ignore all other damage and effects. The spell
ends when all three duplicates are destroyed.
A creature is unaffected by this spell if it has the
Blinded condition, Blindsight, or Truesight.
p--- ··-
----
MISLEAD
Level 5 Illusion (Bard, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: S
Duration: Concentration, up to l hour
You gain the Invisible condition at the same time
that an illusory double of you appears where you
are standing. The double lasts for the duration, but
the invisibility ends immediately after you make an
attack roll, deal damage, or cast a spell.
As a Magic action, you can move the illusory
double up to twice your Speed and make it gesture,
speak, and behave in whatever way you choose. It is
intangible and invulnerable.
You can see through its eyes and hear through its
ears as if you were located where it is.
MISTY STEP
Level 2 Conjuration (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Briefly surrounded by silvery mist, you teleport up
to 30 feet to an unoccupied space you can see.
MODIFY MEMORY
Level 5 Enchantment (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
You attempt to reshape another creature's memories. One creature that you can see within range
makes a Wisdom saving throw. If you are fighting
the creature, it has Advantage on the save. On a
failed save, the target has the Charmed condition
for the duration. While Charmed in this way, the
target also has the Incapacitated condition and is
unaware of its surroundings, though it can hear
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
299
