# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 323/387

SUMMON CONSTRUCT
Level 4 Conjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (a lockbox worth 400+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You call forth the spirit of a Construct. It manifests
in an unoccupied space that you can see within
range and uses the Construct Spirit stat block.
When you cast the spell, choose a material: Clay,
Metal, or Stone. The creature resembles an animate
statue {you determine the appearance) made of the
chosen material, which determines certain details in
its stat block. The creature disappears when it drops
to O Hit Points or when the spell ends.
The creature is an ally to you and your allies. In
combat, the creature shares your Initiative count,
but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It
obeys your verbal commands (no action required
by you). If you don't issue any, it takes the Dodge
action and uses its movement to avoid danger.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot's
level for the spell's level in the stat block.
SUMMON DRAGON
Level 5 Conjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (an object with the image of a
dragon engraved on it worth 500+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You call forth a Dragon spirit. It manifests in an
unoccupied space that you can see within range and
uses the Draconic Spirit stat block. The creature
disappears when it drops to O Hit Points or when
the spell ends.
The creature is an ally to you and your allies. In
combat, the creature shares your Initiative count,
but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It
obeys your verbal commands (no action required
by you). If you don't issue any, it takes the Dodge
action and uses its movement to avoid danger.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot's
level for the spell's level in the stat block.
32
C H A PTE R 7 I SPELLS
CONSTRUCT SPIRIT
Medium Construct, Neutral
AC 13 + the spell's level
Co N STRuc T SP1 R 1T ( STor-ie)
HP 40 + 15 for each spell level above 4
Speed 30 ft.
MOD SAVE
MOD SAVE
OD SAVE
STR 18 +4 +4
DEX 10 +0 +0
CON 18 +4 +4
INT 14 +2 +2
Wis 11
+0 +0
CHA 5 -3 -3
Resistances Poison
Immunities Charmed, Exhaustion, Frightened,
Paralyzed, Poisoned
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception l 0
Languages Understands the languages you know
CR None (XP O; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus)
TRAITS
Heated Body (Metal Only). A creature that hits the
spirit with a melee attack or that starts its turn in a
grapple with the spirit takes l dl O Fire damage.
Stony Lethargy (Stone Only). When a creature starts
its turn within 10 feet of the spirit, the spirit can target
it with magical energy if the spirit can see it. Wisdom
Saving Throw: DC equals your spell save DC, the target.
Failure: Until the start of its next turn, the target can't
make Opportunity Attacks, and its Speed is halved.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The spirit makes a number of Slam attacks
equal to half this spell's level (round down).
Slam. Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals your spell attack
modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: ld8 + 4 + the spell's level Bludgeoning damage.
RE ACTIONS
-----------·--··-·· --
Berserk Lashing (Clay Only). Trigger: The spirit takes
damage from a creature. Respons~: Th! spirit makes
a Slam attack against that creatur(? if possible, or the
spirit moves up to half its Spc<1d t0ward that creature
without provoking Opportunity/:...· c,,,:-~ ..
