# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 253/387

At the end of each of its turns, an affected target repeats the save, ending the spell on itself on a
success.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Sphere's radius
increases by 5 feet for each spell slot level above 4.
CONJU R E ANIMALS
Level 3 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You conjure nature spirits that appear as a Large
pack of spectral, intangible animals in an unoccupied space you can see within range. The pack lasts
for the duration, and you choose the spirits' animal
form, such as wolves, serpents, or birds.
You have Advantage on Strength saving throws
while you're within 5 feet of the pack, and when you
move on your turn, you can also move the pack up
to 30 feet to an unoccupied space you can see.
Whenever the pack moves within 10 feet of a
creature you can see and whenever a creature you
can see enters a space within 10 feet of the pack or
ends its turn there, you can force that creature to
make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the
creature takes 3d10 Slashing damage. A creature
makes this save only once per turn.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage increases by ldlO for each spell slot level above 3.
CONJURE BARRAGE
Level 3 Conjuration (Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a Melee or Ranged weapon
worth at least l CP)
Duration: Instantaneous
You brandish the weapon used to cast the spell and
conjure similar spectral weapons (or ammunition
appropriate to the weapon) that launch forward and
then disappear. Each creature of your choice that
you can see in a 60-foot Cone makes a Dexterity
saving throw, taking 5d8 Force damage on a failed
save or half as much damage on a successful one.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage increases by ld8 for each spell slot level above 3.
254
CH APTER 7 I SPELLS
CONJURE CELESTIAL
Level 7 Conjuration (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You conjure a spirit from the Upper Planes, which
manifests as a pillar of light in a 10-foot-radius,
40-foot-high Cylinder centered on a point within
range. For each creature you can see in the Cylinder, choose which of these lights shines on it:
Healing Light. The target regains Hit Points equal
to 4d12 plus your spellcasting ability modifier.
Searing Light. The target makes a Dexterity saving
throw, taking 6d12 Radiant damage on a failed
save or half as much damage on a successful one.
Until the spell ends, Bright Light fills the Cylinder,
and when you move on your turn, you can also
move the Cylinder up to 30 feet.
Whenever the Cylinder moves into the space of a
creature you can see and whenever a creature you
can see enters the Cylinder or ends its turn there,
you can bathe it in one of the lights. A creature can
be affected by this spell only once per turn.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing and
damage increase by ld12 for each spell slot level
above 7.
CONJURE ELEMENTAL
Level 5 Conjuration (Druid, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 min utes
You conjure a Large, intangible spirit from the Elemental Planes that appears in an unoccupied space
within range. Choose the spirit's element, which
determines its damage type: air (Lightning), earth
(Thunder), fire (Fire), or water (Cold). The spirit
lasts for the duration.
Whenever a creature you can see enters the
spirit's space or starts its turn within 5 feet of the
spirit, you can force that creature to make a Dexterity saving throw if the spirit has no creature
Restrained. On failed save, the target takes 8d8
damage of the spirit's type, and frc target has the
Restrained condition until the sJ. ;•J: ends. At the
start of each of its turns, the Rf':.i: ,·:.i i ned target repeats the save. On a failed :_;ave. t! ,;: I arget takes 4d8
damage of the spirit's type. On ;1 :.·_;-..::·cssful save, the
target isn't Restrained by the ' ;_: , i• ..
Using a Higher-Level Sp.~ii .Sfot. i''., _ da mage increases by 2d8 for each spel' ·,!01 : _ ,e! above 5.
