# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 260/387

Alternatively, you cas t the spell on an object that
. 't being \vorn or carried, causing the sunlight to
,sn
•
• •
t·
f
th
b
fill a 60-foot Emanat1?n on~ma mg r?m
at o -
. t Covering that obJect with something opaque,
Jee •
h
1· h
1 as a bowl or helm, blocks t e sun 1g t.
sue 1
.
If any of this spell's area overlaps with an area of
Darkness created by a spell of level 3 or lower, that
other spell is dispelled.
D EATH WARD
Level 4 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: 8 hours
You touch a creature and grant it a measure of protection from death. The first time the target would
drop to O Hit Points before the spell ends, the target
instead drops to 1 Hit Point, and the spell ends.
Jf the spell is still in effect when the target is subjected to an effect that would ki!l it instantly ':"ithout dealing damage, that effect 1s negated against
the target, and the spell ends.
D ELAYED B LAST F IRE BALL
Level 7 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S, M (a ball of bat guano and sulfur)
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
A beam of yellow light flashes from you, then condenses at a chosen point within range as a glowing
bead for the duration. When the spell ends, the bead
explodes, and each creature in a 20-foot-radius
Sphere centered on that point makes a Dexterity
saving throw. A creature takes Fire damage equal
to the total accumulated damage on a failed save or
half as much damage on a successful one.
The spell's base damage is 12d6, and the damage
increases by ld6 whenever your turn ends and the
spell hasn't ended.
If a creature touches the glowing bead before the
spell ends, that creature makes a Dexterity saving
throw. On a failed save, the spell ends, causing the
bead to explode. On a successful save, the creature
can throw the bead up to 40 feet. If the thrown
bead enters a creature's space or collides with a
solid object, the spell ends, and the bead explodes.
W hen the head explodes, flammable objects in the
explosion that a1·en't being worn or carried start
burning.
Using a Highcr-1.,evel Spell Slot. The base damage
increases b~, 1d6 for each spell slot level above 7.
DEMIPLANE
Level 8 Conjuration (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: S
Duration: l hour
You create a shadowy Medium door on a flat solid
surface that you can see within range. This door
can be opened and closed, and it leads to a demiplane that is an empty room 30 feet in each dimension, made of wood or stone (your choice).
When the spell ends, the door vanishes, and any
objects inside the demiplane remain there. Any
creatures inside also remain unless they opt to be
shunted through the door as it vanishes, landing
with the Prone condition in the unoccupied spaces
closest to the door's former space.
Each time you cast this spell, you can create a
new demiplane or connect the shadowy door to
a demiplane you created with a previous casting
of this spell. Additionally, if you know the nature
and contents of a demiplane created by a casting of
this spell by another creature, you can connect the
shadowy door to that demiplane instead.
D ESTRUCTIVE WAVE
Level 5 Evocation (Paladin)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Destructive energy ripples outward from you in a
30-foot Emanation. Each creature you choose in
the Emanation makes a Constitution saving throw.
On a failed save, a target takes Sd6 Thunder damage
and Sd6 Radiant or Necrotic damage (your choice)
and has the Prone condition. On a successful save, a
target takes half as much damage only.
DETECT Ev1L AN D Goon
Level 1 Divination (Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
For the duration, you sense the location of any Aberration, Celestial, Elemental, Fey, Fiend, or Undead
within 30 feet of yourself. You also sense whether
the Hallow spell is active there and, if so, where.
The spell is blocked by 1 foot of stone, dirt, or
wood; 1 inch of metal; or a thin sheet of lead.
CH a
7- I S££LLS
hT
