# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 360/387

order (!awful, chaotic, or neutral). These factors allow for nine possible combinations, such as Lawful
Good and Neutral Evil. See also chapter 2 ("Create
Your Character").
A LLY
A creature is your ally if it is a member of your
adventu ring party, your friend, on your side in
combat, or a creature that the rules or the DM designates as your ally.
AREA O F EFFECT
The descriptions of many spells and other features
specify that they have an area of effect, which typically has one of six shapes. These shapes are defined
elsewhere in this glossary:
Cone
Cube
Cylinder
Emanation
Line
Sphere
An area of effect has a point of origin, a location
from which the effect's energy erupts. The rules for
each shape specify how to position its point of origin. If all straight lines extending from the point of
origin to a location in the area of effect are blocked,
that location isn't included in the area of effect.
To block a line, an obstruction must provide Total
Cover. See also "Cover."
If the creator of an area of effect places it at an
unseen point and an obstruction-such as a wall- is
between the creator and that point, the point of
origin comes into being on the near side of the
obstruction.
ARMOR CLASS
An Armor Class (AC) is the target number for an
attack roll. AC represents how difficult it is to hit a
target.
Your base AC calculation is 10 plus your Dexterity
modifier. If a rule gives you another base AC calculation, you choose which calculation to use; you
can't use more than one. See also "Attack Roll."
ARMOR TRAI NI NG
Armor training allows you to use armor of a certain category without the following drawbacks. If
you wear Light, Medium, or Heavy armor and lack
training with it, you have Disadvantage on any D20
Test that involves Strength or Dexterity, and you
can't cast spells. If you use a Shield and lack training
with it, you don't gain its AC bonus. See also "Disadvantage" and chapter 6 ("Armor").
ATTACK [ACTION]
When you take the Attack action, you can make one
attack roll with a weapon or an Unarmed Strike.
Equipping and Unequipping Weapons. You can either equip or unequip one weapon when you make
an attack as part of this action. You do so either
before or after the attack. If you equip a weapon
before an attack, you don't need to use it for that attack. Equipping a weapon includes drawing it from
a sheath or picking it up. Unequipping a weapon
includes sheathing, stowing, or dropping it.
Moving between Attacks. If you move on your turn
and have a feature, such as Extra Attack, that gives
you more than one attack as part of the Attack action, you can use some or all of that movement to
move between those attacks.
ATTACK ROLL
An attack roll is a D20 Test that represents making
an attack with a weapon, an Unarmed Strike, or a
spell. See also chapter 1 ("D20 Tests").
ATTITUDE
A monster has a starting attitude toward a player
character: Friendly, Hostile, or Indifferent. See also
"Friendly," "Hostile," "Indifferent," and "Influence."
ATTUNEMENT
Some magic items require a creature to form a
bond-called Attunement-with them before the
creature can use an item's magical properties. A
creature can have Attunement with no more than
three magic items at a time. See also chapter 6
("Magic Items").
BLINDED [CONDITION]
While you have the Blinded condition, you experience the following effects.
Can't See. You can't see and automatically fail any
ability check that requires sight.
Attacks Affected. Attack rolls against you
have Advantage, and your attack rolls have
Disadvantage.
J ·-
BLINDSIGHT
If you have Blindsight, you can see within a specific
range without relying on physical sight. Within that
range, you can see anything that isn't behind Total
Cover even if you have the Blinded condition or are
in Darkness. Moreover, in that range, you can see
something that has the Invisible condition.
APPENDI X CI RULES GLOSSARY
361
