# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 131/387

ROGUE SUBCLASSES
A Rogue subclass is a specialization that grants you
features at certain Rogue levels, as specified in the
subclass. This section presents the Arcane Trickster
Assassin, Soulknife, and Thief subclasses.
'
ARCANE TRICKSTER
Enhance Stealth with Arcane Spells
Some Rogues enhance their fine-honed skills of
stealth and agility with spells, learning magical
tricks to aid them in their trade. Some Arcane
Tricksters use their talents as pickpockets and burglars, while others are pranksters.
LEVEL 3: SPELLCASTING
You have learned to cast spells. See chapter 7 for
the rules on spellcasting. The information below
details how you use those rules as an Arcane
1 Trickster.
Cantrips. You know three cantrips: Mage
Hand and two other can trips of your choice
from the Wizard spell list (see that class's section for its list). Mind Sliver and Minor Illusion are
recommended.
Whenever you gain a Rogue level, you can replace
one of your cantrips, except Mage Hand, with another Wizard can trip of your choice.
When you reach Rogue level 10, you learn another
Wizard cantrip of your choice.
Spell Slots. The Arcane Trickster Spellcasting
table shows how many spell slots you have to cast
your level 1+ spells. You regain all expended spell
slots when you finish a Long Rest.
Prepared Spells of Level 1+. You prepare the list of
level 1+ spells that are available for you to cast with
this feature. To start, choose three level 1 Wizard
spells. Charm Person, Disguise Self, and Fog Cloud are
recommended.
The number of spells on your list increases as you
gain Rogue levels, as shown in the Prepared Spells
column of the Arcane Trickster Spellcasting table.
Whenever that number increases, choose additional
Wizard spells until the number of spells on your
list matches the number in the Arcane Trickster
Spellcasting table. The chosen spells must be of a
level for which you have spell slots. For example, if
you're a level 7 Rogue, your list of prepared spells
can include five Wizard spells of level 1 or 2 in any
combination.
