# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 226/387

Each set or Manacles comes with a key. Without
the key, a cre:1ture can use Thieves' Tools to pick
the Manacles' lock with a successful DC 15 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check.
MAP (1 GP)
If you consult an accurate Map, you gain a +5 bonus
to Wisdom (Survival) checks you make to find your
way in the place represented on it.
MIRROR (5 GP)
A handheld steel Mirror is useful for personal cosmetics but also for peeking around corners and reflecting light as a signal.
NET (1 GP)
When you take the Attack action, you can replace
one of your attacks with throwing a Net. Target a
creature you can see within 15 feet of yourself. The
target must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw
(DC 8 plus your Dexterity modifier and Proficiency
Bonus) or have the Restrained condition until it
escapes. The target succeeds automatically if it is
Huge or larger.
To escape, the target or a creature within 5 feet
of it must take an action to make a DC 10 Strength
(Athletics) check, freeing the Restrained creature
on a success. Destroying the Net (AC 10; 5 HP; Immunity to Bludgeoning, Poison, and Psychic damage) also frees the target, ending the effect.
OI L (1 SP)
You can douse a creature, object, or space with Oil
or use it as fuel, as detailed below.
Dousing a Creature or an Object. When you take
the Attack action, you can replace one of your attacks with throwing an Oil flask. Target one creature or object within 20 feet of yourself. The target
must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw (DC 8
plus your Dexterity modifier and Proficiency Bonus)
or be covered in oil. If the target takes Fire damage
before the oil dries (after 1 minute), the target takes
an extra 5 Fire damage from burning oil.
Dousing a Space. You can take the Utilize action to
pour an Oil flask on level ground to cover a 5-footsquare area within 5 feet of yourself. If lit, the oil
burns until the end of the turn 2 rounds from when
the oil was lit (0 1 12 seconds) and deals 5 Fire damage to any creat ure that enters the area or ends its
turn there. A n ~ature can take this damage only
once per turn.
Fuel. Oil scr :r•i, as fuel for Lamps and Lanterns.
Once lit, a fla<. r. Oil burns for 6 hours in a Lamp
or Lantern. That duration doesn't need to be consecutive; you can extinguish the burning Oil (as
a Utilize action) and rekindle it again until it has
burned for a total of 6 hours.
PAPER (2 SP)
One sheet of Paper can hold about 250 handwritten
words.
PARCHMENT (1 SP)
One sheet of Parchment can hold about 250 handwritten words.
PERFUME (5 GP)
Perfume comes in a 4-ounce vial. For 1 hour after
applying Perfume to yourself, you have Advantage
on Charisma (Persuasion) checks made to influence
an Indifferent Humanoid within 5 feet of yourself.
POISON, BASIC (100 GP)
As a Bonus Action, you can use a vial of Basic Poison to coat one weapon or up to three pieces of ammunition. A creature that takes Piercing or Slashing
damage from the poisoned weapon or ammunition
takes an extra ld4 Poison damage. Once applied, the
poison retains potency for 1 minute or until its damage is dealt, whichever comes first.
CHAPTER 6 I EQUIPMENT
227
