# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 365/387

DIFFICULT TERRAIN
If a space is Difficult Terrain, every foot of movement in that space costs 1 extra foot. For example,
moving 5 feet through Difficult Terrain costs 10 feet
of movement. Difficult Terrain isn't cumulative; either a space is Difficult Terrain or it isn't.
A space is Difficult Terrain if the space contains
any of the following or something similar:
• A creature that isn't Tiny or your ally
• Furniture that is sized for creatures of your size or
larger
• Heavy snow, ice, rubble, or undergrowth
• Liquid that's between shin- and waist-deep
• A narrow opening sized for a creature one size
smaller than you
• A slope of 20 degrees or more
DIFFICULTY CLASS
A Difficulty Class (DC) is the target number for an
ability check or a saving throw. See also chapter 1
("D2O Tests").
D IM L IGHT
An area with Dim Light is Lightly Obscured. See also
"Lightly Obscured" and chapter 1 ("Exploration").
DISADVANTAGE
If yo_u have Disadvantage on a D2O Test, roll two
d2Os and use the lower roll. A roll can't be affected
by more than one Disadvantage, and Advantage and
Disadvantage on the same roll cancel each other. See
also chapter 1 ("D2O Tests").
D ISENGAGE [ACTION]
If you take the Disengage action, your movement
doesn't provoke Opportunity Attacks for the rest of
the current turn.
DODGE [ACTIO N]
If you take the Dodge action, you gain the following
benefits: until the start of your next turn, any attack
roll made against you has Disadvantage if you can
~66
APPE N DI X CI RULES GLOS SA RY
see the attacker, and you make Dexterity saving
throws with Advantage.
You lose these benefits if you have the Incapacitated condition or if your Speed is 0.
EMANATION [AREA OF EFFECT]
An Emanation is an area of effect that extends in
straight lines from a creature or an object in all
directions. The effect that creates an Emanation
specifies the distance it extends.
An Emanation moves with the creature or object
that is its origin unless it is an instantaneous or a
stationary effect.
An Emanation's origin (creature or object) isn't included in the area of effect unless its creator decides
otherwise.
ENCOUNTER
An encounter is a scene in an adventure that is part
of at least one of the game's three pillars: social interaction, exploration, or combat. See also chapter 1
("Social Interaction," "Exploration," and "Combat").
ENEMY
A creature is your enemy if it fights against you in
combat, actively works to harm you, or is designated as your enemy by the rules or DM.
EXHAUSTION [CONDITION]
While you have the Exhaustion condition, you
experience the following effects.
Exhaustion Levels. This condition is cumulative.
Each time you receive it, you gain 1 Exhaustion
level. You die if your Exhaustion level is 6.
D20 Tests Affected. When you make a D2O Test,
the roll is reduced by 2 times your Exhaustion level.
Speed Reduced. Your Speed is reduced by a number of feet equal to 5 times your Exhaustion level.
Removing Exhaustion Levels. Finishing a Long
Rest removes 1 of your Exhaustion levels. When
your Exhaustion level reaches 0, the condition ends.
EXPERIENCE P OINTS
As they overcome challenges an( ,_::,;n plete adventures, characters earn E.v. )w, ;,:nee Points (XP),
