# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 149/387

LEVEL 18: TAMED SURGE
ldlOO
Effect
Immediately after you cast a Sorcerer spell with a
25-28 You are transported to the Astral Plan e until
spell slot, you can create an effect of your choice
from the Wild Magic Surge table instead of rolling
the end of your next turn. You then return
on that table. You can choose any effect in the table
to the space you previously occupied or the
except for the final row, and if the chosen effect innearest unoccupied space if that space is
volves a roll, you must make it.
occupied.
Once you use this feature, you can't do so again
29-32 The next time you cast a spell that deals
until you finish a Long Rest.
damage within the next minute, don't roll
WILD MAGIC SURGE
the spell's damage dice for the damage. Instead use the highest number possible for
ldl00 Effect
each damage die.
01-04 Roll on this table at the start of each of your
33- 36 You have Resistance to all damage for the
turns for the next minute, ignoring this renext minute.
suit on subsequent rolls.
37-40 You turn into a potted plant until the start
05-08 A creature that is Friendly toward you appears in a random unoccupied space within
of your next turn. Wh ile you 're a plant, you
60 feet of you. The creature is under the
have the Incapacitated condition and have
DM 's control and disappears l minute later.
Vulnerability to all damage. If you drop to 0
Roll ld4 to determine the creature: on a
Hit Points, your pot breaks, and your form
reverts.
1, a Modron Duodrone appears; on a 2, a
Flumph appears; on a 3, a Modron Mono-
41-44 For the next minute, you can teleport up to
drone appears; on a 4, a Unicorn appears.
20 feet as a Bonus Action on each of your
See the Monster Manual for the creature's
turns.
stat block.
45-48 You and up to three creatures you choose
09-12 For the next minute, you regain 5 Hit Points
within 30 feet of you have the Invisible conat the start of each of your turns.
dition for l m inute. This invisibility ends on
13-16 Creatures have Disadvantage on saving
a creature immediately after it makes an atthrows against the next spell you cast in the
tack roll, deals damage, or casts a spell.
next minute that involves a saving throw.
49-52 A spectral shield hovers near you for the
17-20 You are subjected to an effect that lasts for
next minute, granting you a +2 bonus to AC
l minute unless its description says otherand immunity to Magic Missile.
wise. Roll ld8 to determine the effect: on a
53-56 You can take one extra action on this turn.
1, you're surrounded by faint, ethereal music
57-60 You cast a random spell. If the spell noronly you and creatures within 5 feet of you
mally requires Concentration, it doesn't
can hear; on a 2, your size increases by one
require Concentration in th is case; the
size category; on a 3, you grow a long beard
spell lasts for its full duration. Roll ldl0 to
made of feathers that remains until you
determine the spell: on a 1, Confusion; on
sneeze, at which point the feathers explode
a 2, Fireball; on a 3, Fog Cloud; on a 4, Fly
from your face and vanish; on a 4, you must
(cast on a random creature within 60 feet of
shout when you speak; on a 5, illusory butyou), on a 5, Grease; on a 6, Levitate (cast
terflies flutter in the air within 10 feet of you;
on yourself); on a 7, Magic M issile (cast as a
on a 6, an eye appears on your forehead,
level 5 spell); on an 8, Mirror Image; on a 9,
granting you Advantage on Wisdom (Per-
Polymorph (cast on yourself), and if you fail
ception) checks; on an 7, pink bubbles float
the saving throw, you turn into a Goat (see
out of your mouth whenever you speak; on
appendix B); on a 10, See Invisibility.
an 8, your skin turns a vibrant shade of blue
61-64 For the next m inute, any flammable, nonfor 24 hours or until the effect is ended by a
magical object you touch that isn't being
Remove Curse spell.
worn or carried by another creature bursts
21-24 For the next minute, all your spells with a
into flame, takes ld4 Fire damage, and is
casting time of an action have a casting time
burning.
:,.
of a Bonus Action.
CHAPT ER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES
