# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 108/387

, I
Co HE PA LADIN TR AITS
Primary Ability
Strength and Charisma
Hit Point Die
D10 per Paladin level
Saving Throw
Proficiencies
Skill Proficiencies
Weapon Proficiencies
Armor Training
Starting Equipment
Wisdom and Charisma
Choose 2: Athletics, Insight,
Intimidation, Medicine,
Persuasion, or Religion
Simple and Martial weapons
Light, Medium, and Heavy
armor and Shields
Choose A or B: (A) Chain
Mail, Shield, Longsword,
6 Javelins, Holy Symbol,
Priest's Pack, and 9 GP; or
(B)lSOGP
ALADINS ARE UNITED BY THEIR OATHS TO
stand against the forces of annihilation and
corruption. Whether sworn before a god's
altar, in a sacred glade before nature spirits, or in a
moment of desperation and grief with the dead as
the only witnesses, a Paladin's oath is a powerful
bond. It is a source of power that turns a devout
warrior into a blessed champion.
Paladins train to learn the skills of combat, mastering a variety of weapons and armor. Even so,
their martial skills are secondary to the magical
power they wield: power to heal the injured, smite
their foes, and protect the helpless and those who
fight at their side.
Almost by definition, the life of a Paladin is an
adventuring life, for every Paladin lives on the front
lines of the cosmic struggle against annihilation.
Fighters are rare enough among the ranks of a
world's armies, but even fewer people can claim the
calling of a Paladin. When they do receive the call,
these blessed folk turn from their former occupations and take up arms and magic.
BECOMING A PALADI N
As A L EVEL I C HARACTER
• Gain all the traits in the Core Paladin Traits table.
• Gain the Paladin's level 1 features, which are listed
in the Paladin Features table.
As A H ULTICLASS C HARACTER
• Gain the following traits from the Core Paladin
Trails ,able: Hit Point Die, proficiency with Martial weapons, and training with Light and Medium
armor and Shields.
Gain the Paladin's level I features, which are listed
in the Paladin Features table. See the multiclassing rules in chapter 2 to determine your available
spell slots.
PALADIN CLASS FEATURES
As a Paladin, you gain the following class features
when you reach the specified Paladin levels. These
features are listed in the Paladin Features table.
LEVEL l: LAY O N H A NDS
Your blessed touch can heal wounds. You have a
pool of healing power that replenishes when you
finish a Long Rest. With that pool, you can restore
a total number of Hit Points equal to five times your
Paladin level.
As a Bonus Action, you can touch a creature
(which could be yourself) and draw power from the
pool of healing to restore a number of Hit Points to
that creature, up to the maximum amount remaining in the pool.
You can also expend 5 Hit Points from the pool
of healing power to remove the Poisoned condition
from the creature; those points don't also restore
Hit Points to the creature.
LEVEL 1: SPELLCASTING
You have learned to cast spells through prayer and
meditation. See chapter 7 for the rules on spellcasting. The information below details how you use
those rules with Paladin spells, which appear in the
Paladin spell list later in the class's description.
Spell Slots. The Paladin Features table shows how
many spell slots you have to cast your level 1+ spells.
You regain all expended slots when you finish a
Long Rest.
Prepared Spells of Level 1+. You prepare the list of
level 1+ spells that are available for you to cast with
this feature. To start, choose two level 1 Paladin
spells. Heroism and Searing Smite are recommended.
The number of spells on your list increases as
you gain Paladin levels, as shown in the Prepared
Spells column of the Paladin Features table. Whenever that number increases, choose additional
Paladin spells until the number of spells on your
list matches the number in the Paladin Features
table. The chosen spells must be of a level for which
you have spell slots. For example, if you're a level 5
Paladin, your list of prepared spells can include six
Paladin spells of level 1 or 2 in any combination.
If another Paladin feature gives you spells that
you always have prepared, those spells don't count
against the number of spells you can prepare with
this feature, but those spells otherwise count as
Paladin spells for you.
