# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 87/387

LEVEL 14: OCEANIC GIFT
Instead of manifesting the Emanation of W rath of
the Sea around yourself, you can m a ni fest it around
one willing creature within 60 feet of you rself. That
creature gains all the benefits of the Emanation and
uses your spell save DC and Wisdom modifier for it.
In addition, you can manifest the Emanation
around both the other creature and yourself if you
expend two uses of your Wild Shape instead of one
when manifesting it.
CIRCLE OF THE STARS
Harness Secrets Hidden in Constellations
The Circle of the Stars has tracked heavenly patterns since time immemorial, discovering secrets
hidden amid the constellations. By understanding
these secrets, the Druids of this circle seek to harness the powers of the cosmos.
LEVEL 3: STAR MAP
You've created a star chart as part of your heavenly
studies. It is a Tiny object, and you can use it as a
Spellcasting Focus for your Druid spells. You determine its form by rolling on the Star Map table or by
choosing one.
While holding the map, you have the Guidance and
Guiding Bolt spells prepared, and you can cast Guiding Bolt without expending a spell slot. You can cast
it in that way a number of times equal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of once), and you regain all
expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.
If you lose the map, you can perform a 1-hour
ceremony to magically create a replacement. This
ceremony can be performed during a Short or Long
Rest, and it destroys the previous map.
STAR MAP
ld6 Map Form
A scroll bearing depictions of constellations
2
A stone tablet with fine holes drilled through it
3
An owlbear hide tooled with stellar symbols
4
A collection of maps bound in an ebony cover
5
A crystal engraved with starry patterns
6
A glass disk etched with constellations
LEVEL 3: STARRY F ORM
As a Bonus Action, you can expend a use of your
Wild Shape feature to take on a starry form rather
than shape-shifting.
While in your starry form, you retain your game
statistics, but your body becomes luminous, your
joints glimmer like stars, and glowing lines connect
them as on a star chart. This form sheds Bright
Light in a 10-foot radius and Dim Light for an additional 10 feet. The form lasts for 10 m inutes. It ends
