# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 155/387

GAZE OF Two MINDS
Prerequisite: Level 5+ Warlock
You can use a Bonus Action to touch a willing
creature and perceive through its senses until the
end of your next turn. As long as the creature is on
the same plane of existence as you, you can take a
Bonus Action on subsequent turns to maintain this
connection, extending the duration until the end of
your next turn. The connection ends if you don't
maintain it in this way.
While perceiving through the other creature's
senses, you benefit from any special senses possessed by that creature, and you can cast spells as if
you were in your space or the other creature's space
if the two of you are within 60 feet of each other.
GIFT OF THE DEPTHS
Prerequisite: Level 5+ Warlock
You can breathe underwater, and you gain a Swim
Speed equal to your Speed.
You can also cast Water Breathing once without
expending a spell slot. You regain the ability to cast
it in this way again when you finish a Long Rest.
GIFT OF THE PROTECTORS
Prerequisite: Level 9+ Warlock, Pact of the Tome
Invocation
A new page appears in your Book of Shadows when
you conjure it. With your permission, a creature
can take an action to write its name on that page,
which can contain a number of names equal to your
Charisma modifier (minimum of one name).
When any creature whose name is on the page
is reduced to O Hit Points but not killed outright,
the creature magically drops to 1 Hit Point instead.
Once this magic is triggered, no creature can benefit from it until you finish a Long Rest.
As a Magic action, you can erase a name on the
page by touching it.
INVESTMENT OF THE CHAIN MASTER
Prerequisite: Level 5+ Warlock, Pact of the Chain
Invocation
When you cast Find Familiar, you infuse the summoned familiar with a measure of your eldritch
power, granting the creature the following benefits.
Aerial or Aquatic. The familiar gains either a Fly
Speed or a Sw im Speed (your choice) of 40 feet.
Quick Attack. As a Bonus Action, you can command the familiar to take the Attack action.
Necrotic or Radiant Damage. Whenever the familiar deals Bludgeoning, Piercing, or Slashing damage,
you can make it deal Necrotic or Radiant damage
instead.
Your Save DC. If the familiar forces a creature to
make a saving throw, it uses your spell save DC.
CH A PTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES
Resistance. When the familia r takes dam age, you
can take a Reaction to grant it Resistance against
that damage.
LESSONS OF THE FIRST ONES
Prerequisite: Level 2+ Warlock
You have received knowledge from an elder entity
of the multiverse, allowing you to gain one Origin
feat of your choice (see chapter 5).
Repeatable. You can gain this invocation more
than once. Each time you do so, choose a different
Origin feat.
LIFEDRINKER
Prerequisite: Level 9+ Warlock, Pact of the Blade
Invocation
Once per turn when you hit a creature with your
pact weapon, you can deal an extra ld6 Necrotic
Psychic, or Radiant damage (your choice) to the•
creature, and you can expend one of your Hit Point
Dice to roll it and regain a number of Hit Points
equal to the roll plus your Constitution modifier
(minimum of 1 Hit Point).
MASK OF MANY FACES
Prerequisite: Level 2+ Warlock
You can cast Disguise Self without expending a spell
slot.
MASTER O F M Y RIAD FORMS
Prerequisite: Level 5+ Warlock
You can cast Alter Self without expending a spell
slot.
MISTY VISION S
Prerequisite: Level 2+ Warlock
You can cast Silent Image without expending a spell
slot.
O N E WIT H S HADOWS
Prerequisite: Level 5+ Warlock
While you're in an area of Dim Light or Darkness,
you can cast Invisibility on yourself without expending a spell slot.
OTHERWO RLDLY L EAP
Prerequisite: Level 2+ Warlock
You can cast jump on yourself without expending a
spell slot.
PACT O F THE B LADE
As a Bonus Action, you can conjure a pact weapon
in your hand- a Simple or Martial Melee weapon of
your choice with which you bond- or create a bond
with a magic weapon you touch; you can't bond
with a magic weapon if someone else is attuned to
it or another Warlock is bonded w ith i . Unt il the
