# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 110/387

ff ::i Channel Divinity effect requires a saving
th!'ow, the DC equals the spell save DC from this
class's Spellcasting feature.
Divine Sense. As a Bonus Action, you can open
your awareness to detect Celestials, Fiends, and
Undead. For the next 10 minutes or until you have
the Incapacitated condition, you know the location
of any creature of those types within 60 feet of
yourself, and you know its creat ure type. Within
the same radius, you also detect the presence of any
place or object that has been consecrated or desecrated, as with the Hallow spell.
LEVEL 3: PALADIN SUBCLASS
You gain a Paladin subclass of your choice. The
Oath of Devotion, Oath of Glory, Oath of the Ancients, and Oath of Vengeance subclasses are detailed after this class's description. A subclass is a
specialization that grants you features at certain
Paladin levels. For the rest of your career, you gain
each of your subclass's features that are of your Paladin level or lower.
LEVEL 4: ABILITY SCORE IMPROVEMENT
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see
chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which
you qualify. You gain this feature again at Paladin
levels 8, 12, and 16.
LEVEL 5: EXTRA ATTACK
You can attack twice instead of once whenever you
take the Attack action on your turn.
LEVEL 5: FAITHFUL STEED
You can call on the aid of an otherworldly steed.
You always have the Find Steed spell prepared.
You can also cast the spell once without expending a spell slot, and you regain the ability to do so
when you finish a Long Rest.
LEVEL 6: AURA OF PROTECTION
You radiate a protective, unseeable aura in a 10-foot
Emanation that originates from you. The aura is inactive while you have the Incapacitated condition.
You and your allies in the aura gain a bonus to
saving throws equal to your Charisma modifier
(minimum bonus of +1).
If another Paladin is present, a creature can benefit from only one Aura of Protection at a time; the
creature chooses which aura while in them.
LEVE L 9: ABJURE FOES
As a Magic action, you can expend one use of this
clas~:•s Channel Divinity to overwhelm foes with
awe. As you present your Holy Symbol or weapon,
BREAKING YOUR OATH
A Paladin tries to hold to the highest standards of
conduct, but even the most dedicated are fallible.
Sometimes a Paladin transgresses their oath.
A Paladin who has broken a vow typically seeks
absolution, spending an all-night vigil as a sign
of penitence or undertaking a fast. After a rite of
forgiveness, the Paladin starts fresh.
If your Paladin unrepentantly violates their oath,
talk to your DM. Your Paladin should probably
take a more appropriate subclass or even abandon the class and adopt another one.
you can target a number of creatures equal to your
Charisma modifier (minimum of one creature) that
you can see within 60 feet of yourself. Each target
must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have
the Frightened condition for 1 minute or until it
takes any damage. While Frightened in this way, a
target can do only one of the following on its turns:
move, take an action, or take a Bonus Action.
LEVEL 10: AURA OF COURAGE
You and your allies have Immunity to the Frightened condition while in your Aura of Protection. If
a Frightened ally enters the aura, that condition has
no effect on that ally while there.
LEVEL 11: RADIANT STRIKES
Your strikes now carry supernatural power. When
you hit a target with an attack roll using a Melee
weapon or an Unarmed Strike, the target takes an
extra ld8 Radiant damage.
LEVEL 14: RESTORING TOUCH
When you use Lay On Hands on a creature, you can
also remove one or more of the following conditions
from the creature: Blinded, Charmed, Deafened,
Frightened, Paralyzed, or Stunned. You must expend 5 Hit Points from the healing pool of Lay On
Hands for each of these conditions you remove;
those points don't also restore Hit Points to the
creature.
LEVEL 18: AURA EXPANSION
Your Aura of Protection is now a 30-foot
Emanation.
LEVEL 19: EPIC BOON
You gain an Epic Boon feat (see chapter S) or another feat of your choice for which you qualify.
Boon of Truesight is recommended.
