# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 248/387

CALM E MOTIO NS
Level 2 Encliantment (Bard, Cleric)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
Each Humanoid in a 20-foot-radius Sphere centered
on a point you choose within range must succeed
on a Charisma saving throw or be affected by one of
the following effects (choose for each creature):
. The creature has Immunity to the Charmed and
Frightened conditions until the spell ends. If the
creature was already Charmed or Frightened,
those conditions are suppressed for the duration.
. The creature becomes Indifferent about creatures of your choice that it's Hostile toward. This
indifference ends if the target takes damage or
witnesses its allies taking damage. When the spell
ends, the creature's attitude returns to normal.
C H AI N LIGHTNING
Level 6 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S, M (three silver pins)
Duration: Instantaneous
You launch a lightning bolt toward a target you can
see within range. Three bolts then leap from that
target to as many as three other targets of your
choice, each of which must be within 30 feet of the
first target. A target can be a creature or an object
and can be targeted by only one of the bolts.
Each target makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 10d8 Lightning damage on a failed save or half
as much damage on a successful one.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. One additional bolt
leaps from the first target to another target for each
spell slot level above 6.
CHARM MONSTER
Level 4 Enchantment (Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock,
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: l hour
One creature you can see within range makes a
Wisdom savi~(J" throw. It does so with Advantage
t,
if you or your ,1 Jlies are fighting it. On a failed save,
the target ha:. the Charmed condition until the
spell ends or until you or your allies damage it. The
Charmed creature is Friendly to you. When the
spell ends, the target knows it was Charmed by you.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one
additional creature for each spell slot level above 4.
;,....- ..
CHARM PERSON
Level 1 Enchantment (Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock,
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: l hour
One Humanoid you can see within range makes a
Wisdom saving throw. It does so with Advantage
if you or your allies are fighting it. On a failed save,
the target has the Charmed condition until the
spell ends or until you or your allies damage it. The
Charmed creature is Friendly to you. When the
spell ends, the target knows it was Charmed by you.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one
additional creature for each spell slot level above 1.
CHILL TOUCH
Necromancy Cantrip (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Channeling the chill of the grave, make a melee
spell attack against a target within reach. On a hit,
the target takes ldlO Necrotic damage, and it can't
regain Hit Points until the end of your next turn.
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by ldlO
when you reach levels 5 (2d10), 11 (3d10), and 17
(4d10).
CHROMATIC ORB
Level 1 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth 50+ GP)
Duration: Instantaneous
You hurl an orb of energy at a target within range.
Choose Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, Poison, or Thunder for the type of orb you create, and then make a
ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, the
target takes 3d8 damage of the chosen type.
If you roll the same number on two or more of
the d8s, the orb leaps to a different target of your
choice within 30 feet of the target. Make an attack
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
249
