# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 366/387

.,
•--~~lllh ..
...,, -•, I
which are awarded by the Dungeon Master. When
a character's XP total crosses certain thresholds,
the character's level increases. The Dungeon Master's
Guide provides guidance on awarding XP. See also
chapter 2 ("Level Advancement").
EXPERTISE
Expertise is a feature that enhances your use of a
skill proficiency. When you make an ability check
with a skill proficiency in which you have Expertise,
your Proficiency Bonus is doubled for that check
unless the bonus is doubled by another feature.
If you gain Expertise, you gain it in one skill in
which you have proficiency. You can't have Expertise in the same skill proficiency more than once.
See also chapter 1 ("Proficiency").
f ALLING [HAZARD]
A creature that falls takes ld6 Bludgeoning damage at the end of the fall for every 10 feet it fell, to
a maximum of 20d6. When the creature lands, it
has the Prone condition unless it avoids taking any
damage from the fall.
A creature that falls into water or another liquid
can use its Reaction to make a DC 15 Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check to hit the
surface head or feet first. On a successful check, any
damage resulting from the fall is halved.
FLYING
A variety of effects allow a creature to fly. While
flying, you fall if you have the Incapacitated or
Prone condition or your Fly Speed is reduced to 0.
You can stay aloft in those circumstances if you can
hover. See also "Falling" and "Fly Speed."
FLY SPEED
A Fly Speed can be used to travel through the air.
While you have a Fly Speed, you can stay aloft until
you land, fall, or die. See also "Flying" and "Speed."
FRI ... • DLY [ATTIT UDE]
A Frkndly creature views you favorably. You
haw .f..dvantage on an ability check to influence a
Frie:,· l y creature. See also "Influence."
FRIGHTENED [CONDITION]
While you have the Frightened condition, you experience the following effects.
Ability Checks and Attacks Affected. You have Disadvantage on ability checks and attack rolls while
the source of fear is within line of sight.
Can't Approach. You can't willingly move closer to
the source of fear.
GRAPPLED [CONDITION]
While you have the Grappled condition, you experience the following effects.
Speed 0. Your Speed is O and can't increase.
Attacks Affected. You have Disadvantage on attack
rolls against any target other than the grappler.
Movable. The grappler can drag or carry you
when it moves, but every foot of movement costs it 1
extra foot unless you are Tiny or two or more sizes
smaller than it.
;:,. ---
--·-- -··--·-·--------,----.,.....-
GRAPPLING
A creature can grapple another creature. Characters typically grapple by using an Unarmed Strike.
Many monsters have special attacks that allow
them to quickly grapple prey. However a grapple is
initiated, it follows these rules. See also "Unarmed
Strike" and "Grappled."
Grappled Condition. Successfully grappling a creature gives it the Grappled condition.
One Grapple per Hand. A creature must have a
hand free to grapple another creature. Some stat
blocks and game effects allow a creature to grapple using a tentacle, a maw, or another body part.
Whatever part a grappler uses, it can grapple only
one creature at a time with that part, and the grappler can't use that part to target another creature
unless it ends the grapple.
Escaping a Grapple. A Grappled creature can use
its action to make a Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check against the grapple's escape
DC, ending the condition on itself on a success. The
condition also ends if the grappler has the Incapacitated condition or if the distance between the Grappled target and the grappler exceeds the grapple's
range.
APPENDIX C I RULES GLOSSARY
367
