# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 297/387

MESSAGE
Transmutation Cantrip (Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: S, M (a copper wire)
Duration: l round
You point toward a creature within range and
whisper a message. The target (and only the target)
hears the message and can reply in a whisper that
only you can hear.
You can cast this spell through solid objects if you
are familiar with the target and know it is beyond
the barrier. Magical silence; 1 foot of stone, metal, or
wood; or a thin sheet of lead blocks the spell.
METEOR SWARM
Level 9 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: l mile
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Blazing orbs of fire plummet to the ground at four
different points you can see within range. Each
creature in a 4O-foot-radius Sphere centered on
each of those points makes a Dexterity saving
throw. A creature takes 2Od6 Fire damage and
2Od6 Bludgeoning damage on a failed save or half
as much damage on a successful one. A creature in
the area of more than one fiery Sphere is affected
only once.
A nonmagical object that isn't being worn or carried also takes the damage if it's in the spell's area,
and the object starts burning if it's flammable.
MIND BLANK
Level 8 Abjuration (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: 24 hours
Until the spell ends, one willing creature you touch
has Immunity to Psychic damage and the Charmed
condition. The target is also unaffected by anything
that would sense its emotions or alignment, read its
thoughts, or magically detect its location, and no
spell-not even Wish-can gather information about
the target, observe it remotely, or control its mind.
298
CHA PTER 7 I SPE LLS
MIND SLIVER
Enchantment Can trip (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: l round
You try to temporarily sliver the mind of one creature you can see within range. The target must
succeed on an Intelligence saving throw or take ld6
Psychic damage and subtract ld4 from the next saving throw it makes before the end of your next turn.
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by ld6
when you reach levels 5 (2d6), 11 (3d6), and 17 (4d6).
MIND SPIKE
Level 2 Divination (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: S
Duration: Concentration, up to l hour
You drive a spike of psionic energy into the mind of
one creature you can see within range. The target
makes a Wisdom saving throw, taking 3d8 Psychic
damage on a failed save or half as much damage on
a successful one. On a failed save, you also always
know the target's location until the spell ends, but
only while the two of you are on the same plane
of existence. While you have this knowledge, the
target can't become hidden from you, and if it has
the Invisible condition, it gains no benefit from that
condition against you.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage increases by ld8 for each spell slot level above 2.
MINOR ILLUSION
Illusion Cantrip (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: S, M (a bit of fleece)
Duration: l minute
You create a sound or an image of an object within
range that lasts for the duration. See the descriptions below for the effects of each. The illusion ends
if you cast this spell again.
If a creature takes a Study r1ction to examine the
sound or image, the creature can determine that it
is an illusion with a successfo' .li;telligence (Investigation) check against your sp~i! :;:-,ve DC. If a creature discerns the illusion for v. k .t it is, the illusion
becomes faint to the crea ·ui•;-
