# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 24/387

PLAYING ON A GRID
If you play usi ng a square grid and miniatures or
other tokens, follow these rules.
Squares. Each square represents 5 feet.
Speed. Rather than moving foot by foot, move
square by square on the grid, using your Speed
in 5-foot segments. You can translate your Speed
into squares by dividing it by 5. For example, a
Speed of 30 feet translates into 6 squares. If you
use a grid often, consider writing your Speed in
squares on your character sheet.
Entering a Square. To enter a square, you must
have enough movement left to pay for entering.
It costs l square of movement to enter an unoccupied square that's adjacent to your space
(orthogonally or diagonally adjacent). A square of
Difficult Terrain costs 2 squares to enter. Other
effects might make a square cost even more.
Corners. Diagonal movement can't cross the
corner of a wall, a large tree, or another terrain
feature that fills its space.
Ranges. To determine the range on a grid
between two things-whether creatures or objects-count squares from a square adjacent to
one of them and stop counting in the space of the
other one. Count by the shortest route.
Every foot of movement in Difficult Terrain costs
I extra foot, even if multiple things in a space count
as Difficult Terrain.
BREAKING UP YOUR MOVE
You can break up your move, using some of its
movement before and after any action, Bonus Action, or Reaction you take on the same turn. For example, if you have a Speed of 30 feet, you could go
10 feet, take an action, and then go 20 feet.
DROPPING PRONE
On your turn, you can give yourself the Prone
condition (see the rules glossary) without using an
action or any of your Speed, but you can't do so if
your Speed is 0.
CREATURE SIZE
A creature belongs to a size category, which determines the width of the square space the creature
occupies on a map, as shown on the Creature Size
and Space table. That table lists the sizes from
smallest (Tiny) to largest (Gargantuan). A creature's
space is the area that it effectively controls in combat and the area it needs to fight effectively.
A character's size is determined by species, and
a monster's size is specified in the monster's stat
block.
CREATURE SIZE AND SPACE
Size
Space (Feet)
Space (Squares)
Tiny
2½ by 2½ feet
4 per square
Small
5 by 5 feet
l square
Medium
5 by 5 feet
l square
Large
10 by 10 feet
4 squares (2 by 2)
Huge
15 by 15 feet
9 squares (3 by 3)
Gargantuan
20 by 20 feet
16 squares (4 by 4)
MOVING AROUND OTHER CREATURES
During your move, you can pass through the space
of an ally, a creature that has the Incapacitated condition (see the rules glossary), a Tiny creature, or a
creature that is two sizes larger or smaller than you.
Another creature's space is Difficult Terrain for
you unless that creature is Tiny or your ally.
You can't willingly end a move in a space occupied
by another creature. If you somehow end a turn in
a space with another creature, you have the Prone
condition (see the rules glossary) unless you are
Tiny or are of a larger size than the other creature.
MAKING AN ATTACK
When you take the Attack action, you make an
attack. Some other actions, Bonus Actions, and Reactions also let you make an attack. Whether you
strike with a Melee weapon, fire a Ranged weapon,
or make an attack roll as part of a spell, an attack
has the following structure:
1: Choose a Target. Pick a target within your attack's range: a creature, an object, or a location.
2: Determine Modifiers. The DM determines
whether the target has Cover (see the next section) and whether you have Advantage or Disadvantage against the target. In addition, spells,
special abilities, and other effects can apply penalties or bonuses to your attack roll.
3: Resolve the Attack. Make the attack roll, as
detailed earlier in this chapter. On a hit, you roll
damage unless the particular attack has rules
that specify otherwise. Some attacks cause special effects in addition to or instead of damage.
COVER
Walls, trees, creatures, and other obstacles can
provide cover, making a target more difficult to
harm. As detailed in the Cover table, there are three
degrees of cover, each of which gives a different
benefit to a target.
A target can benefit from cover only when an attack or other effect originates on the opposite side
of the cover. If a target is behind multiple sources of
