# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 65/387

appearance for 1 minute or until your one •. 'ration ends. During this time, you can ca t
o,:-rnand
as a Bonus Action without expending a peli s l t.
Any creature Charmed by you automaticaily fai ls
its saving throw against the Command you cast with
this feature.
Once you use this feature, you can't use it again
until you finish a Long Rest. You can a lso restore
your use of it by expending a level 3+ spell slot (no
action required).
LEVEL 14: UNBREAKABLE MAJESTY
As a Bonus Action, you can assume a magica lly
majestic presence for 1 minute or until you have the
Incapacitated condition. For the duration, whenever
any creature hits you with an attack roll for the
first time on a turn, the attacker must succeed on a
Charisma saving throw against your spell save DC,
or the attack misses instead, as the creature recoils
from your majesty.
Once you assume this majestic presence, you can't
do so again until you finish a Short or Long Rest.
COLLEGE OF LORE
Plumb the Depths of Magical Knowledge
Bards of the College of Lore collect spells and secrets from diverse sources, such as scholarly tomes,
mystical rites, and peasant tales. The college's members gather in libraries and universities to share
their lore with one another. They also meet at festivals or affairs of state, where they can expose corruption, unravel lies, and poke fun at self-important
figures of authority.
LEVEL 3: BONUS PROFICIENCIES
You gain proficiency with three skills of your
choice.
LEVEL 3: CUTTING WORDS
You learn to use your wit to supernaturally distract,
confuse, and otherwise sap the confidence and
competence of others. When a creature that you
can see within 60 feet of yourself makes a damage
roll or succeeds on an ability check or attack roll,
you can take a Reaction to expend one use of your
Bardic Inspiration; roll your Bardic Inspiration die,
and subtract the number rolled from the creature's
roll, reducing the damage or potentially turning the
success into a failure.
LEVEL 6: MAGICAL DISCOVERIES
You learn two spells of your choice. These spells can
come from the Cleric, Druid, or Wizard spell list or
any combination thereof (see a class's section for its
spell list). A spell you choose must be a cantrip or a
spell for which you have spell slots, as shown in the
Bard Features table.
