# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 265/387

DOMINATE PERSON
Level 5 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer~ Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
One Humanoid you can see within range must
succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the
Charmed condition for the duration. The target has
Advantage on the save if you or your allies are fighting it. Whenever the target takes damage, it repeats
the save, ending the spell on itself on a success.
You have a telepathic link with the Charmed target while the two of you are on the same plane of
existence. On your turn, you can use this link to
issue commands to the target (no action required),
such as "Attack that creature," "Move over there,"
or "Fetch that object." The target does its best to
obey on its turn. If it completes an order and doesn't
receive further direction from you, it acts and
moves as it likes, focusing on protecting itself.
You can command the target to take a Reaction
but must take your own Reaction to do so.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Your Concentration can last longer with a spell slot of level 6 (up to
10 minutes), 7 (up to 1 hour), or 8+ (up to 8 hours).
DRAGON'S BREATH
Level 2 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (a hot pepper)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You touch one willing creature, and choose Acid,
Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Poison. Until the spell
ends, the target can take a Magic action to exhale
a IS-foot Cone. Each creature in that area makes a
Dexterity saving throw, taking 3d6 damage of the
chosen type on a failed save or half as much damage
on a successful one.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage increases by ld6 for each spell slot level above 2.
D RAWMIJ 's I NSTANT SUMM ONS
Level 6 Conjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (a sapphire worth 1,000+ GP)
Duration: Until dispelled
You touch the sapphire used in the casting and an
object weighing 10 pounds or less whose longest dimension is 6 feet or less. The spell leaves an Invisible
266
Cll :\PTER 7 I SPE LLS
mark on that object and invisibly in::, i :! .es the object's name on the sapphire. Each tim•! you cast this
spell, you must use a different sapphi1·e.
Thereafter, you can take a Magic action to speak
the object's name and crush the sapphire. The object instantly appears in your hand rega rdless of
physical or planar distances, and the spell ends.
If another creature is holding or carrying the object, crushing the sapphire doesn't transport it, but
instead you learn who that creature is and where
that creature is currently located.
DREAM
Level 5 Illusion (Bard, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: l minute
Range: Special
Components: V, S, M (a handful of sand)
Duration: 8 hours
You target a creature you know on the same plane
of existence. You or a willing creature you touch
enters a trance state to act as a dream messenger.
While in the trance, the messenger is Incapacitated
and has a Speed of 0.
If the target is asleep, the messenger appears in
the target's dreams and can converse with the target as long as it remains asleep, through the spell's
duration. The messenger can also shape the dream's
environment, creating landscapes, objects, and
other images. The messenger can emerge from the
trance at any time, ending the spell. The target recalls the dream perfectly upon waking.
If the target is awake when you cast the spell, the
messenger knows it and can either end the trance
(and the spell) or wait for the target to sleep, at
which point the messenger enters its dreams.
You can make the messenger terrifying to the target. If you do so, the messenger can deliver a message of no more than ten words, and then the target
makes a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the
target gains no benefit from its rest, and it takes 3d6
Psychic damage when it wakes up.
DRUIDCRAFT
Transmutation Cantrip (Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Whispering to the spi rit~ of 1.ature, you create one
of the following effects v.:i.-hin range.
Weather Sensor. You l\:a::c.: a Tiny, harmless sensory effect that predicts whcl.J- the weather will be
at your location for thr ,·1c,.; i: 24 hours. The effect
might manifest as a gc11rl,.:;. , 1:\.1 for clear skies, a
