# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 277/387

2 8
l'l
""
Deities and other planar rulers can prevent portals created by this spell from opening in their presence or anywhere within their domains.
When you cast this spell, you can speak the name
of a specific creature (a pseudonym, title, or nickname doesn't work). If that creature is on a plane
other than the one you are on, the portal opens
next to the named creature and transports it to the
nearest unoccupied space on your side of the portal.
You gain no special power over the creature, and it
is free to act as the DM deems appropriate. It might
leave, attack you, or help you.
GEAS
Level 5 Enchantment (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin,
Wizard)
Casting Time: l minute
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: 30 days
You give a verbal command to a creature that you
can see within range, ordering it to carry out some
service or refrain from an action or a course of activity as you decide. The target must succeed on a
Wisdom saving throw or ha·1e the Charmed condition for the duration. The target automatically succeeds if it can't understand your command.
C.11 1\PTER 7 I SPELLS
-,x-
While Charmed, the creature takes SdlO Psychic
damage if it acts in a manner directly counter to
your command. It takes this damage no more than
once each day.
You can issue any command you choose, short
of an activity that would result in certain death.
Should you issue a suicidal command, the spell ends.
A Remove Curse, Greater Restoration, or Wish spell
ends this spell.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. If you use a level
7 or 8 spell slot, the duration is 365 days. If you use
a level 9 spell slot, the spell lasts until it is ended by
one of the spells mentioned above.
G ENTLE R EPOSE
Level 2 Necromancy (Cleric, Paladin, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (2 Copper Pieces, which the
spell consumes)
Duration: 10 days
You touch a corpse or other remains. For the duration, the target is protected from decay and can't
become Undead.
The spell also effect:ve! , extends the time limit on
raising the target from tj;,_ dead, since days spent
under the influence of :1 i •; spell don't count against
the time limit of speib .. ;· :-11 as Raise Dead.
