# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 238/387

SPELL 0 ES CRI PTIONS
The spells ~re presented in alphabetical order.
ACID SPLASH
Evocation Cantrip (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You create an acidic bubble at a point within range,
where it explodes in a 5-foot-radius Sphere. Each
creature in that Sphere must succeed on a Dexterity
saving throw or take ld6 Acid damage.
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by ld6
when you reach levels 5 (2d6), 11 (3d6), and 17 (4d6).
r,
AID
Level 2 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a strip of white cloth)
Duration: 8 hours
Choose up to three creatures within range. Each
target's Hit Point maximum and current Hit Points
increase by 5 for the duration.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Each target's Hit
Points increase by 5 for each spell slot level above 2.
ALA R M
Level 1 Abjuration (Ranger, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bell and silver wire)
Duration: 8 hours
You set an alarm against intrusion. Choose a door,
a window, or an area within range that is no larger
than a 20-foot Cube. Until the spell ends, an alarm
alerts you whenever a creature touches or enters
the warded area. When you cast the spell, you can
designate creatures that won't set off the alarm. You
also choose whether the alarm is audible or mental:
Audible Alarm. The alarm produces the sound of
a handbell for 10 seconds within 60 feet of the
warded area.
Mental Alarm. You are alerted by a mental ping
if you are within 1 mile of the warded area. This
ping awa kcr.~: you if you're asleep.
ALTER SELF
Level 2 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You alter your physical form. Choose one of the
following options. Its effects last for the duration,
during which you can take a Magic action to replace
the option you chose with a different one.
Aquatic Adaptation. You sprout gills and grow
webs between your fingers. You can breathe underwater and gain a Swim Speed equal to your Speed.
Change Appearance. You alter your appearance.
You decide what you look like, including your
height, weight, facial features, sound of your voice,
hair length, coloration, and other distinguishing
characteristics. You can make yourself appear as
a member of another species, though none of your
statistics change. You can't appear as a creature of a
different size, and your basic shape stays the same;
if you're bipedal, you can't use this spell to become
quadrupedal, for instance. For the duration, you can
take a Magic action to change your appearance in
this way again.
Natural Weapons. You grow claws (Slashing),
fangs (Piercing), horns (Piercing), or hooves (Bludgeoning). When you use your Unarmed Strike to
deal damage with that new growth, it deals ld6
damage of the type in parentheses instead of dealing the normal damage for your Unarmed Strike,
and you use your spellcasting ability modifier for
the attack and damage rolls rather than using
Strength.
ANIMAL FRIENDSHIP
Level 1 Enchantment (Bard, Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a morsel of food)
Duration: 24 hours
Target a Beast that you can see within range. The
target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or
have the Charmed condition for the duration. If you
or one of your allies deals damage to the target, the
spells ends.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one
additional Beast for each spell slot level above 1.
CH A PTER 7 I SP ELLS
239
