# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 235/387

Magic Items. Spell Scrolls and some other magic
items contain spells that can be cast without a
spell slot. The description of such an item specifies
how many times a spell can be cast from it.
USING A HIGHER-LEVEL SPELL SLOT
When a spelkaster casts a spell using a slot that is
of a higher level than the spell, the spell takes on
the higher level for that casting. For instance, if a
Wizard casts Magic Missile using a level 2 slot, that
Magic Missile is level 2. Effectively, the spell expands
to fill the slot it is put into.
Some spells, such as Magic Missile and Cure
Wounds, have more powerful effects when cast at a
higher level, as detailed in a spell's description.
S CHO OL OF MAGIC
Each spell belongs to a school of magic. The schools
are listed in the Schools of Magic table. These categories help describe spells but have no rules of their
own, although some other rules refer to them.
SCHOOLS OF MAGIC
School
Typical Effects
Abjuration
Prevents or reverses harmful effects
Conjuration
Transports creatures or objects
Divination
Reveals information
Enchantment
Influences minds
Evocation
Channels energy to create effects
that are often destructive
Illusion
Deceives the mind or senses
Necromancy
Manipulates life and death
Transmutation Transforms creatures or objects
CLASS SPELL LISTS
If a spell is on a class's spell list, the class's name
appears in parentheses after the spell's school of
magic. Some features add a spell to a character's
spell list even if the character isn't a member of a
class in the parentheses.
CASTING TIME
Most spells require the Magic action to cast, but
some spells require a Bonus Action, a Reaction, or 1
minute or more. Aspell's Casting Time entry specifies which of those is required.
ONE SPELL WITH A SPELL SLOT PER TURN
On a turn, you can expend only one spell slot to cast
a spell. This rule means you can't, for example, cast
a spell with a spell slot using the Magic action and
another one using a Bonus Action on the same turn.
236
CH APTER 7 I SPELLS
REACTION AND BONUS A CT ION ' J>.(, G ERS
A spell that has a casting time of a Reaction is cast
in response to a trigger that is defined in the spell's
Casting Time entry. Some spells that have a casting
time of a Bonus Action are also cast in response to a
trigger defined in the spell.
LONGER CASTING TIMES
Certain spells-including a spell cast as a Ritualrequire more time to cast: minutes or even hours.
While you cast a spell with a casting time of 1
minute or more, you must take the Magic action
on each of your turns, and you must maintain Concentration (see the rules glossary) while you do so.
If your Concentration is broken, the spell fails, but
you don't expend a spell slot. To cast the spell again,
you must start over.
R A NGE
Aspell's range indicates how far from the spellcaster the spell's effect can originate, and the spell's
description specifies which part of the effect is limited by the range.
A range usually takes one of the following forms:
Distance. The range is expressed in feet.
Touch. The spell's effect originates on something
the spellcaster must touch, as defined in the spell.
Self. The spell is cast on the spellcaster or emanates
from them, as specified in the spell.
If a spell has movable effects, they aren't restricted
by its range unless the spell's description says
otherwise.
COMPO NENTS
Aspell's components are physical requirements the
spellcaster must meet to cast the spell. Each spell's
description indicates whether it requires Verbal
(V), Somatic (S), or Material (M) components. If
the spellcaster can't provide one or more of a spell's
components, the spellcaster can't cast the spell.
VERBAL (V)
A Verbal component is the chanting of esoteric
words that sound like nonsense to the uninitiated.
The words must be uttered in a normal speaking
voice. The words themselves aren't the source of the
spell's power; rather, the particular combination of
sounds, with specific pitch and resonance, sets the
threads of magic in motion. Thus, a creature who is
gagged or in an area of magical silence can't cast a
spell with a Verbal component.
SOMATIC (S)
A Somatic component is a force ful gesticulation
or an intricate set of gestures. A spcllcaster must
use at least one of their hands !.( 1 :;~rfnrm these
movements.
