# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 331/387

Familiarity. Here are the meanings of the terms in
the table's Familiarity column:
"Permanent circle" means a permanent teleportation circle whose sigil sequence you know.
"Linked object" means you possess an object
taken from the desired destination within the last
six months, such as a book from a wizard's library.
"Very familiar" is a place you have visited often,
a place you have carefully studied, or a place you
can see when you cast the spell.
"Seen casually" is a place you have seen more than
once but with which you aren't very familiar.
• "Viewed once or described" is a place you have
seen once, possibly using magic, or a place you
know through someone else's description, perhaps
from a map.
• "False destination" is a place that doesn't exist.
Perhaps you tried to scry an enemy's sanctum but
instead viewed an illusion, or you are attempting
to teleport to a location that no longer exists.
Mishap. The spell's unpredictable magic results in
a difficult journey. Each teleporting creature (or the
target object) takes 3d10 Force damage, and the DM
rerolls on the table to see where you wind up (multiple mishaps can occur, dealing damage each time).
Similar Area. You and your group (or the target
object) appear in a different area that's visually or
thematically similar to the target area. You appear
in the closest similar place. If you are heading for
your home laboratory, for example, you might appear in another person's laboratory in the same city.
Off Target. You and your group (or the target object) appear 2d12 miles away from the destination
in a random direction. Roll ld8 for the direction: 1,
east; 2, southeast; 3, south; 4, southwest; 5, west; 6,
northwest; 7, north; or 8, northeast.
On Target. You and your group (or the target object) appear where you intended.
TELEPORTATION CIRCLE
Level 5 Conjuration (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: l minute
Range: l O feet
Components: V, M (rare inks worth 50+ GP, which the
spell consumes)
Duration: l round
As you cast the spell, you draw a 5-foot-radius circle
on the ground inscribed with sigils that link your
location to a permanent teleportation circle of your
choice whose sigil sequence you know and that is
on the same plane of existence as you. A shimmering portal opens within the circle you drew and
remains open until the end of your next turn. Any
creature that enters the portal instantly appears
within 5 feet of the destination circle or in the nearest unoccupied space if that space is occupied.
Many major temples, guildhalls, and other important places have permanent teleportation circles. Each circle includes a unique sigil sequence- a
string of runes arranged in a particular pattern.
When you first gain the ability to cast this spell,
you learn the sigil sequences for two destinations
on the Material Plane, determined by the DM. You
might learn additional sigil sequences during your
adventures. You can commit a new sigil sequence to
memory after studying it for 1 minute.
You can create a permanent teleportation circle
by casting this spell in the same location every day
for 365 days.
TENSER
1S FLOATING DISK
Level 1 Conjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a drop of mercury)
Duration: l hour
This spell creates a circular, horizontal plane of
force, 3 feet in diameter and 1 inch thick, that floats
3 feet above the ground in an unoccupied space
of your choice that you can see within range. The
disk remains for the duration and can hold up to
500 pounds. If more weight is placed on it, the spell
ends, and everything on the disk falls to the ground.
The disk is immobile while you are within 20 feet
of it. If you move more than 20 feet away from it,
the disk follows you so that it remains within 20
feet of you. It can move across uneven terrain, up
or down stairs, slopes and the like, but it can't cross
an elevation change of 10 feet or more. For example, the disk can't move across a 10-foot-deep pit,
nor could it leave such a pit if it was created at the
bottom.
If you move more than 100 feet from the disk
(typically because it can't move around an obstacle
to follow you), the spell ends.
