# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 255/387

CONTAGION
Level 5 Necromancy (Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Component: V, S
Duration: 7 days
Your touch inflicts a magical contagion. The target
must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or
take lld8 Necrotic damage and have the Poisoned
condition. Also, choose one ability when you cast
the spell. While Poisoned, the target has Disadvantage on saving throws made with the chosen ability.
The target must repeat the saving throw at the
end of each of its turns until it gets three successes
or failures. If the target succeeds on three of these
saves, the spell ends on the target. If the target fails
three of the saves, the spell lasts for 7 days on it.
Whenever the Poisoned target receives an effect
that would end the Poisoned condition, the target
must succeed on a Constitution saving throw, or the
Poisoned condition doesn't end on it.
,.. -·-
CONTIN GENCY
Level 6 Abjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a gem-encrusted statuette of
yourself worth 1,500+ GP)
Duration: 10 days
Choose a spell of level 5 or lower that you can cast,
that has a casting time of an action, and that can
target you. You cast that spell-called the contingent spell-as part of casting Contingency, expending
spell slots for both, but the contingent spell doesn't
come into effect. Instead, it takes effect when a certain trigger occurs. You describe that trigger when
you cast the two spells. For example, a Contingency
cast with Water Breathing might stipulate that Water
Breathing comes into effect when you are engulfed
in water or a similar liquid.
The contingent spell takes effect immediately after the trigger occurs for the first time, whether or
not you want it to, and then Contingency ends.
The contingent spell takes effect only on you, even
if it can normally target others. You can use only
one Contingency spell at a time. If you cast this spell
again, the effect of another Contingency spell on you
ends. Also, Contingency ends on you if its material
component is ever not on your person.
2'i6
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
CONTINUAL FLAM E
Level 2 Evocation (Cleric, Druid, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (ruby dust worth 50+ GP, which
the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled
A flame springs from an object that you touch. Th
effect casts Bright Light in a 2O-foot radius and
e
Dim Light for an additional 20 feet. It looks like a
regular flame, but it creates no heat and consumes
no fuel. The flame can be covered or hidden but not
smothered or quenched.
CONTROL WATER
Level 4 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 300 feet
Components: V, S, M (a mixture of water and dust)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Until the spell ends, you control any water inside an
area you choose that is a Cube up to 100 feet on a
side, using one of the following effects. As a Magic
action on your later turns, you can repeat the same
effect or choose a different one.
Flood. You cause the water level of all standing
water in the area to rise by as much as 20 feet. If
you choose an area in a large body of water, you
instead create a 2O-foot tall wave that travels from
one side of the area to the other and then crashes.
Any Huge or smaller vehicles in the wave's path
are carried with it to the other side. Any Huge or
smaller vehicles struck by the wave have a 25 percent chance of capsizing.
The water level remains elevated until the spell
ends or you choose a different effect. If this effect
produced a wave, the wave repeats on the start of
your next turn while the flood effect lasts.
Part Water. You part water in the area and create a trench. The trench extends across the spell's
area, and the separated water forms a wall to either
side. The trench remains until the spell ends or you
choose a different effect. The water then slowly fills
in the trench over the course of the next round until the normal water level is restored.
Redirect Flow. You cause flowing water in the area
to move in a direction you choose, even if the water has to flow over obstacles, up walls, or in other
unlikely directions. The water in the area moves as
you direct it, but once it move5 beyond the spell's
area, it resumes its flow ha ·ed on the terrain. The
water continues to move in the direction you chose
until the spell ends or you choose a different effect.
