# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 370/387

Taking any damage
1 hour of walking or other physical exertion
If you rested at least 1 hour before the interruption,
you gain the benefits of a Short Rest. See also "Short
Rest."
You can resume a Long Rest immediately after an
interruption. If you do so, the rest requires 1 additional hour per interruption to finish.
MAGIC [ACTIO N]
When you take the Magic action, you cast a spell
that has a casting time of an action or use a feature
or magic item that requires a Magic action to be
activated.
If you cast a spell that has a casting time of 1 minute or longer, you must take the Magic action on
each turn of that casting, and you must maintain
Concentration while you do so. If your Concentration is broken, the spell fails, but you don't expend a
spell slot. See also "Concentration."
MAGICAL EFFECT
An effect is magical if it is created by a spell, a magic
item, or a phenomenon that a rule labels as magical.
MALN UTRITION [HAZARD]
A creature needs an amount of food per day based
on its size, as shown in the Food Needs per Day table. A creature that eats but consumes less than half
the required food for a day must succeed on a DC
10 Constitution saving throw or gain 1 Exhaustion
level at the day's end. A creature that eats nothing
for 5 days automatically gains 1 Exhaustion level at
the end of the fifth day as well as an additional level
at the end of each subsequent day without food.
Exhaustion caused by malnutrition can't be removed until the creature eats the full amount of
food required for a day. See also "Exhaustion."
Fooo NEEDS PER DAY
Size
Food
Size
Food
Tiny
1/4 pound
Large
4 pounds
S111all
l pound
Huge
16 pounds
Medium
l pound
Gargantuan 64 pounds
MONSTER
A monster is a creature controlled by the DM, even
if the creature is benevolent. See also "Creature" and
"NPC."
NONPLAYER CHARACTER
A nonplayer character (NPC) is a monster that has
a personal name and a distinct personality. See also
"Monster."
OBJECT
An object is a nonliving, distinct thing. Composite
things, like buildings, comprise more than one object. See also "Breaking Objects."
OCCUPIED SPACE
A space is occupied if a creature is in it or if it is
completely filled by objects.
OPPORTUNITY ATTACKS
You can make an Opportunity Attack when a creature that you can see leaves your reach using its
action, its Bonus Action, its Reaction, or one of its
speeds. To make the Opportunity Attack, take a Reaction to make one melee attack with a weapon or
an Unarmed Strike against the provoking creature.
The attack occurs right before the creature leaves
your reach. See also chapter 1 ("Combat").
PARALYZED [CONDITION]
While you have the Paralyzed condition, you experience the following effects.
Incapacitated. You have the Incapacitated
condition.
Speed 0. Your Speed is O and can't increase.
Saving Throws Affected. You automatically fail
Strength and Dexterity saving throws.
Attacks Affected. Attack rolls against you have
Advantage.
Automatic Critical Hits. Any attack roll that hits
you is a Critical Hit if the attacker is within 5 feet of
you.
APPENDIX C I RULES GLOSSARY
371
