# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 144/387

SORC E RER SUBCLASSES
A Sorcerer subclass is a specialization that grants
you features at ce1·tain Sorcerer levels, as specified
in the subclass. This section presents the Aberrant
Sorcery, Clockwork Sorcery, Draconic Sorcery, and
Wild Magic Sorcery subclasses.
ABERRANT SORCERY
Wield Unnatural Psionic Power
An alien influence has wrapped its tendrils around
your mind, giving you psionic power. You can now
touch other minds with that power and alter the
world around you. Will this power shine from you
as a hopeful beacon to others? Or will you be a terror to those who feel the stab of your mind?
Perhaps a psychic wind from the Astral Plane
carried psionic energy to you, or you were exposed
to the Far Realm's warping influence. Alternatively,
you were implanted with a mind flayer tadpole,
but your transformation into a mind flayer never
occurred; now the tadpole's psionic power is yours.
However you acquired this power, your mind is
aflame with it.
LEVEL 3: PSIONIC SPELLS
When you reach a Sorcerer level specified in the
Psionic Spells table, you thereafter always have the
listed spells prepared.
PSIONIC SPELLS
Sorcerer Level
Spells
3
Arms of Hadar, Calm Emotions,
Detect Thoughts, Dissonant Whispers, Mind Sliver
5
Hunger of Hadar, Sending
7
Evard's Black Tentacles,
Summon Aberration
9
Rary's Telepathic Bond, Telekinesis
LEVEL 3: TELEPATH IC SPEECH
You can form a telepathic connection between your
mind and the mind of another. As a Bonus Action,
choose one creature you can see within 30 feet of
yourself. You and the chosen creature can communicate telepathically with each other while the
two of you are within a number of miles of each
other equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum
of 1 mile). To understand each other, you each must
mentally use a language the other knows.
The telepathic connection lasts for a number of
minutes equal to your Sorcerer level. It ends early
if you use this ability to form a connection with a
different creature.
