# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 334/387

TREE STRIDE
Level 5 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
You gain the ability to enter a tree and move from
inside it to inside another tree of the same kind
within 500 feet. Both trees must be living and at
least the same size as you. You must use 5 feet of
movement to enter a tree. You instantly know the
location of all other trees of the same kind within
500 feet and, as part of the move used to enter the
tree, can either pass into one of those trees or step
out of the tree you're in. You appear in a spot of
your choice within 5 feet of the destination tree,
using another 5 feet of movement. If you have no
movement left:, you appear within 5 feet of the tree
you entered.
You can use this transportation ability only once
on each of your turns. You must end each turn outside a tree.
TRU E P OLYMORPH
Level 9 Transmutation (Bard, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a drop of mercury, a dollop of
gum arabic, and a wisp of smoke)
Duration: Concentration, up to l hour
Choose one creature or nonmagical object that you
can S<'t' within range. The creature shape-shifts into
a different creature or a nonmagical object, or the
obje<.:~. $hape-shifts into a creature (the object must
be neithfr worn nor carried). The transformation
last. fm: the duration or until the target dies or is
destroyed, but if you maintain Concentration on
this spell for the full duration, the spell lasts until
dispelled.
An unwilling creature can make a Wisdom saving throw, and if it succeeds, it isn't affected by this
spell.
Creature into Creature. If you turn a creature into
another kind of creature, the new form can be any
kind you choose that has a Challenge Rating equal
to or less than the target's Challenge Rating or level.
The target's game statistics are replaced by the stat
block of the new form, but it retains its Hit Points,
Hit Point Dice, alignment, and personality.
The target gains a number of Temporary Hit
Points equal to the Hit Points of the new form. The
spell ends early on the target if it has no Temporary
Hit Points left.
The target is limited in the actions it can perform
by the anatomy of its new form, and it can't speak
or cast spells.
The target's gear melds into the new form. The
creature can't use or otherwise benefit from any of
that equipment.
Object into Creature. You can turn an object into
any kind of creature, as long as the creature's size
is no larger than the object's size and the creature
has a Challenge Rating of 9 or lower. The creature
is Friendly to you and your allies. In combat, it takes
its turns immediately after yours, and it obeys your
commands.
If the spell lasts more than an hour, you no longer
control the creature. It might remain Friendly to
you, depending on how you have treated it.
Creature into Object. If you turn a creature into an
object, it transforms along with whatever it is wearing and carrying into that form, as long as the object's size is no larger than the creature's size. The
creature's statistics become those of the object, and
the creature has no memory of time spent in this
form after the spell ends and it returns to normal.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
33
