# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 278/387

GI A NT I N SECT
Level 4 Conjuration (Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You summon a giant centipede, spider, or wasp
(chosen when you cast the spell). It manifests in an
unoccupied space you can see within range and uses
the Giant Insect stat block. The form you choose
determines certain details in its stat block. The
creature disappears when it drops to O Hit Points or
when the spell ends.
The creature is an ally to you and your allies. In
combat, the creature shares your Initiative count,
but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It
GIANT INSECT
Large Beast, Unaligned
AC 11 + the spell's level
HP 30 + 10 for each spell level
Speed 40 ft., Climb 40 ft., Fly 40 ft. (Wasp only)
MOD SAVE
MOD SAVE
MOD SAVE
STR 17 +3
+3
DEX 13 +l
+l
CON 15 +2 +2
INT 4
-3 -3
Wis 14 +2 +2
CHA 3 -4 -4
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 12
Languages Understands the languages you know
CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus)
TRAITS
Spider Climb. The insect can climb difficult surfaces,
including along ceilings, without needing to make an
ability check.
ACTIONS
Multiattack. The insect makes a number of attacks
equal to half this spell's level (round down).
Poison jab. Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals your spell
attack modifier, reach 10 ft. Hit: ld6 + 3 plus the spell's
level Piercing damage plus ld4 Poison damage.
Web Bolt (Spider Only). Ranged Attack Roll: Bonus
equals you r spell attack modifier, range 60 ft. Hit: ldl0
+ 3 plus the spell's level Bludgeoning damage, and the
target's Speed is reduced to 0 until the start of the insect's next turn.
BONUS P. 1: ·1 iONS
~
;...;._;..:;_ ____________ _
Venomous -~ ,ew (Centipede Only). Constitution Saving
Throw: Yot !r • pell save DC, one creature the insect can
see with i11 ·:·, feet.Failure: The target has the Poisoned
condition .,., ~;i the start of the insect's next turn.
obeys your verbal commands (no action required
by you). If you don't issue any, it takes the Dodge
action and uses its movement to avoid danger.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot's
level for the spell's level in the stat block.
p
-
----·- ----- --
-
GLIBNESS
Level 8 Enchantment (Bard, Warlock)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: l hour
Until the spell ends, when you make a Charisma
check, you can replace the number you roll with a
15. Additionally, no matter what you say, magic that
would determine if you are telling the truth indicates that you are being truthful.
GLOBE OF INVULNERABILITY
Level 6 Abjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a glass bead)
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
An immobile, shimmering barrier appears in a 10-
foot Emanation around you and remains for the
duration.
Any spell of level 5 or lower cast from outside the
barrier can't affect anything within it. Such a spell
can target creatures and objects within the barrier,
but the spell has no effect on them. Similarly, the
area within the barrier is excluded from areas of
effect created by such spells.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The barrier blocks
spells of 1 level higher for each spell slot level
above 6.
GLYPH OF WARDING
Level 3 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Wizard)
Casting Time: l hour
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (powdered diamond worth 200+
GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled or triggered
You inscribe a glyph that later unleashes a magical
effect. You inscribe it either on a surface (such as a
table or a section of floor) or within an object that
can be closed (such as a book or chest) to conceal
the glyph. The glyph can cover an area no larger
CHA PTER 7 I SPELLS
'2'70
