# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 313/387

to it. The target doesn't know what it is making the
save against, only that it feels uneasy.
Your Knowledge of the Target Is ...
Secondhand (heard of the target)
Save Modifier
+5
Firsthand (met the target)
+0
Extensive (know the target well)
-5
You Have the Target's ...
Save Modifier
Picture or other likeness
-2
Garment or other possession
-4
Body part, lock of hair, or bit of nail
-10
On a successful save, the target isn't affected, and
you can't use this spell on it again for 24 hours.
On a failed save, the spell creates an Invisible,
intangible sensor within 10 feet of the target. You
can see and hear through the sensor as if you were
there. The sensor moves with the target, remaining
within 10 feet of it for the duration. If something
can see the sensor, it appears as a luminous orb
about the size of your fist.
Instead of targeting a creature, you can target a
location you have seen. When you do so, the sensor
appears at that location and doesn't move.
SEARING SMITE
Level 1 Evocation (Paladin)
Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immediately after hitting a target with a Melee weapon or
an Unarmed Strike
Range: Self
Component: V
Duration: l minute
As you hit the target, it takes an extra ld6 Fire damage from the attack. At the start of each of its turns
until the spell ends, the target takes ld6 Fire damage and then makes a Constitution saving throw.
On a failed save, the spell continues. On a successful
save, the spell ends.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. All the damage increases by ld6 for each spell slot level above 1.
SEE I NVISIBILITY
Level 2 Divination (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of talc)
Duration: l hour
For the duration, you see creatures and objects that
have the Invisible condition as if they were visible,
and you can see into the Ethereal Plane. Creatures
and objects there appear ghostly.
SEEMING
Level 5 Illusion (Bard, So,·cerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 8 hours
You give an illusory appearance to each creature of
your choice that you can see within range. An unwilling target can make a Charisma saving throw,
and if it succeeds, it is unaffected by this spell.
You can give the same appearance or different
ones to the targets. The spell can change the appearance of the targets' bodies and equipment. You
can make each creature seem 1 foot shorter or taller
and appear heavier or lighter. A target's new appearance must have the same basic arrangement of
limbs as the target, but the extent of the illusion is
otherwise up to you. The spell lasts for the duration.
The changes wrought by this spell fail to hold up
to physical inspection. For example, if you use this
spell to add a hat to a creature's outfit, objects pass
through the hat.
A creature that takes the Study action to examine
a target can make an Intelligence (Investigation)
check against your spell save DC. If it succeeds, it
becomes aware that the target is disguised.
SENDING
Level 3 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Unlimited
Components: V, S, M (a copper wire)
Duration: Instantaneous
You send a short message of 25 words or fewer to
a creature you have met or a creature described to
you by someone who has met it. The target hears
the message in its mind, recognizes you as the
sender if it knows you, and can answer in a like
manner immediately. The spell enables targets to
understand the meaning of your message.
You can send the message across any distance and
even to other planes of existence, but if the target
is on a different plane than you, there is a 5 percent
chance that the message doesn't arrive. You know if
the delivery fails.
Upon receiving your message, a creature can
block your ability to reach it again w ith this spell
for 8 hours. If you try to send 3nr,~her message
during that time, you learn th.at •rou are blocked,
and the spell fails.
