# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 88/387

early if you dismiss it (no action required), have the
Incapacitated condition, or use this feature again.
Whenever you assume your starry form, choose
which of the following constellations glimmers on
your body; your choice gives you certain benefits
while in the form.
Archer. A constellation of an archer appears on
you. When you activate this form and as a Bonus
Action on your subsequent turns while it lasts, you
can make a ranged spell attack, hurling a luminous
arrow that targets one creature within 60 feet of
yourself. On a hit, the attack deals Radiant damage
equal to ld8 plus your Wisdom modifier.
Chalice. A constellation of a life-giving goblet
appears on you. Whenever you cast a spell using
a spell slot that restores Hit Points to a creature,
you or another creature within 30 feet of you can
regain Hit Points equal to ld8 plus your Wisdom
modifier.
Dragon. A constellation of a wise dragon appears on you. When you make an Intelligence or a
Wisdom check or a Constitution saving throw to
maintain Concentration, you can treat a roll of 9 or
lower on the d20 as a 10.
L EVEL 6: COSMIC OMEN
Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can consult
your Star Map for omens and roll a die. Until you
finish your next Long Rest, you gain access to a special Reaction based on whether you rolled an even
or an odd number on the die:
Weal (Even). Whenever a creature you can see
within 30 feet of you is about to make a D20 Test,
you can take a Reaction to roll ld6 and add the
number rolled to the total.
Woe (Odd). Whenever a creature you can see
within 30 feet of you is about to make a D20 Test,
you can take a Reaction to roll ld6 and subtract
the number rolled from the total.
You can use this Reaction a number of times equal
to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of once), and
you regain all expended uses when you finish a
Long Rest.
L EVEL 10: TwINKLING CONSTELLATIONS
The constellations of your Starry Form improve.
The ld8 of the Archer and the Chalice becomes 2d8,
and while the Dragon is active, you have a Fly Speed
of 20 feet and can hover.
Moreover, at the start of each of your turns while
in your Starry Form, you can change which constellation glimmers on your body.
L EVEL 14: F ULL OF STARS
While in your Starry Form, you become partially
incorporeal, giving you Resistance to Bludgeoning,
Piercing, and Slashing damage.
