# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 362/387

~
While dragging, lifting, or pushing weight in excess of the maximum weight you can carry, your
Speed can be no more than 5 feet.
CARRYING CAPACITY
Creature Size
Carry
Drag/Lift/Push
Tiny
Str. x 7.5 lb.
Str. x 15 lb.
Small/Medium
Str. x 15 lb.
Str. x 30 lb.
Large
Str. x 30 lb.
Str. x 60 lb.
Huge
Str. x 60 lb.
Str. x 120 lb.
Gargantuan
Str. x 120 lb.
Str. x 240 lb.
' . -
CHALLE NGE R ATING
Challenge Rating (CR) summarizes the threat a
monster poses to a group of four player characters.
Compare a monster's CR to the characters' level.
If the CR is higher, the monster is likely a danger.
If the CR is lower, the monster likely poses little
threat. But circumstances and the number of player
characters can significantly alter how threatening
a monster is in actual play. The Dungeon Master's
Guide provides guidance to the DM on using CR
while planning potential combat encounters. See
also "Stat Block."
C H ARACTER SHEET
A character sheet is a paper or digital record that
you use to track your character's information. See
also chapter 2.
CHARMED [CONDITION]
While you have the Charmed condition, you experience the following effects.
Can't Harm the Charmer. You can't attack the
charmer or target the charmer with damaging abilities or magical effects.
Social Advantage. The charmer has Advantage on
any ability check to interact with you socially.
C LI , "' . I NG
W hile you're climbing, each foot of movement costs
1 extrn foot (2 extra feet in Difficult Terrain). You
ignore t his extra cost if you have a Climb Speed and
use i· o climb.
At the DM's option, climbing a slippery surface or
one with few handholds might require a successful
DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check.
CLIMB SPEED
A Climb Speed can be used in place of Speed to traverse a vertical surface without expending the extra
movement normally associated with climbing. See
also "Climbing" and "Speed."
CONCENTRATION
Some spells and other effects require Concentration
to remain active, as specified in their descriptions.
If the effect's creator loses Concentration, the effect
ends. If the effect has a maximum duration, the effect's description specifies how long the creator can
concentrate on it: up to 1 minute, 1 hour, or some
other duration. The creator can end Concentration
at any time (no action required). The following factors break Concentration.
Another Concentration Effect. You lose Concentration on an effect the moment you start casting
a spell that requires Concentration or activate another effect that requires Concentration.
Damage. If you take damage, you must succeed on
a Constitution saving throw to maintain Concentration. The DC equals 10 or half the damage taken
(round down}, whichever number is higher, up to a
maximum DC of 30.
Incapacitated or Dead. Your Concentration ends if
you have the Incapacitated condition or you die.
CONDITION
A condition is a temporary game state. The definition of a condition says how it affects its recipient,
and various rules define how to end a condition.
This glossary defines these conditions:
Blinded
Grappled
Poisoned
Charmed
Incapacitated
Prone
Deafened
Invisible
Restrained
Exhaustion
Paralyzed
Stunned
Frightened
Petrified
Unconscious
A condition doesn't stack with itself; a recipient either has a condition or doesn't. The Exhaustion condition is an exception to that rule. See also chapter 1
("Conditions").
APPENDIX C I RULES GLOSSARY
363
