# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 174/387

,•
ILLUSI~ ;i tST __
_ _
Weave Subtl!' pel/s of Deception
You specialize in magic that dazzles the senses and
tricks the mind, and the illusions you craft make the
impossible seem real.
LEVEL 3: ILLUSIO N SAVANT
Choose two Wizard spells from the Illusion school,
each of which must be no higher than level 2, and
add them to your spellbook for free.
In addition, whenever you gain access to a new
level of spell slots in this class, you can add one
Wizard spell from the Illusion school to your spellbook for free. The chosen spell must be of a level for
which you have spell slots.
LEVEL 3: IMPROVED ILLUSIONS
You can cast Illusion spells without providing Verbal components, and if an Illusion spell you cast has
a range of 10+ feet, the range increases by 60 feet.
You also know the Minor Illusion cantrip. If you already know it, you learn a different Wizard cantrip
of your choice. The can trip doesn't count against
your number of cantrips known. You can create
both a sound and an image with a single casting of
Minor Illusion, and you can cast it as a Bonus Action.
L EVEL 6: PHANTASMAL CREATURES
You always have the Summon Beast and Summon Fey
spells prepared. Whenever you cast either spell, you
can change its school to Illusion, which causes the
summoned creature to appear spectral. You can cast
the Illusion version of each spell without expending
a spell slot, but casting it without a slot halves the
creature's Hit Points. Once you cast either spell
without a spell slot, you must finish a Long Rest before you can cast the spell in that way again.
LEVEL 10: ILLUSORY SELF
When a creature hits you with an attack roll, you
can take a Reaction to interpose an illusory duplicate of yourself between the attacker and yourself.
The attack automatically misses you, then the illusion dissipates.
Once you use this feature, you can't use it again
until you finish a Short or Long Rest. You can also
restore your use of it by expending a level 2+ spell
slot (no action required).
LEVEL 14: J LLUSORY R EA LITY
You have learned to weave shadow magic into your
illusions to give them a semi-reality. When you cast
an Illusion Sf,dl with a spell slot, you can choose
one inanimate, nonmagical object that is part of the
illusion and n i; kc that object real. You can do this
on your tu r:, : , 'i a Bonus Action while the spell is ongoing. The oi j'.•ct remains real for 1 minute, during
which it c :ir:'; c:eal damage or give any conditions.
For examp1r- . 1: u can create an illusion of a bridge
over a cha,;; n :.: nd then make it real and cross it.
