# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 372/387

W hen the trigger occurs, you can either take your
Reaction right after the trigger finishes or ignore
the trigger.
W hen you Ready a spell, you cast it as normal (expending any resources used to cast it) but hold its
energy, which you release with your Reaction when
the trigger occurs. To be readied, a spell must have
a casting time of an action, and holding on to the
spell's magic requires Concentration, which you can
maintain up to the start of your next turn. If your
Concentration is broken, the spell dissipates without taking effect.
RESISTANCE
If you have Resistance to a damage type, damage of
that type is halved against you (round down). Resistance is applied only once to an instance of damage.
See also chapter 1 ("Damage and Healing").
RESTRAINED [CONDITION]
While you have the Restrained condition, you experience the following effects.
Speed 0. Your Speed is O and can't increase.
Attacks Affected. Attack rolls against you
have Advantage, and your attack rolls have
Disadvantage.
Saving Throws Affected. You have Disadvantage
on Dexterity saving throws.
RITUAL
If you have a spell prepared that has the Ritual tag,
you can cast that spell as a Ritual. The Ritual version of a spell takes 10 minutes longer to cast than
normal. It also doesn't expend a spell slot, which
means the ritual version of a spell can't be cast at a
higher level. See also chapter 7.
ROUND DOWN
Whenever you divide or multiply a number in the
game, round down if you end up with a fraction,
even if the fraction is one-half or greater. Some
rules make an exception and tell you to round up.
SAVE
Save is another name for a saving throw. See also
"Saving Throw."
SAVI NG THROW
A saving throw-also called a save-represents an
attempt to avoid or resist a threat. You normally
make n saving throw only when a rule requires you
to do so, but you can decide to fail the save without
rolling. The result of a save is detailed in the effect
that allowed it. If a target is forced to make a save
and lacks the ability score used by it, the target automatically fails. See also chapter 1 ("D20 Tests").
SEARCH [ACTION]
When you take the Search action, you make a Wisdom check to discern something that isn't obvious.
The Search table suggests which skills are applicable when you take this action, depending on what
you're trying to detect.
SEARCH
Skill
Insight
Medicine
Perception
Survival
Thing to Detect
Creature's state of mind
Creature's ailment or cause of death
Concealed creature or object
Tracks or food
SHAPE-SHIFTING
If an effect, such as Wild Shape or the Polymorph
spell, lets you shape-shift, its description specifies
what happens to you. Unless that description says
otherwise, any ongoing effects on you-conditions,
spells, curses, and the like-carry over from one
form to the other. You revert to your true form if
you die.
SHORT REST
A Short Rest is a 1-hour period of downtime, during
which a creature does nothing more strenuous than
reading, talking, eating, or standing watch. To start
a Short Rest, you must have at least 1 Hit Point.
Benefits of the Rest. When you finish the rest, you
gain the following benefits:
Spend Hit Point Dice. You can spend one or more
of your Hit Point Dice to regain Hit Points. For
each Hit Point Die you spend in this way, roll the
die and add your Constitution modifier to it. You
regain Hit Points equal to the total (minimum of 1
Hit Point). You can decide to spend an additional
Hit Point Die after each roll.
Special Feature. Some features are recharged by a
Short Rest. If you have such a feature, it recharges
in the way specified in its description.
Interrupting the Rest. A Short Rest is stopped by
the following interruptions:
• Rolling Initiative
• Casting a spell other than a cantrip
• Taking any damage
An interrupted Short Rest confers no benefits.
APPE DIX CI RULES GLOSSARY
