# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 282/387

HAI L O F l'H OR NS
Level 1 Conjuration (Ranger)
casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immediately after hitting a creature with a Ranged weapon
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
As you hit the creature, this spell creates a rain
of thorns that sprouts from your Ranged weapon
or ammunition. The target of the attack and each
creature within S feet of it make a Dexterity saving
throw, taking ldlO Piercing damage on a failed save
or half as much damage on a successful one.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage increases by ldlO for each spell slot level above 1.
HALLOW
Level 5 Abjuration (Cleric)
Casting Time: 24 hours
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (incense worth l ,000+ GP,
which the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled
You touch a point and infuse an area around it with
holy or unholy power. The area can have a radius up
to 60 feet, and the spell fails if the radius includes
an area already under the effect of Hallow. The affected area has the following effects.
Hallowed Ward. Choose any of these creature
types: Aberration, Celestial, Elemental, Fey, Fiend,
or Undead. Creatures of the chosen types can't
willingly enter the area, and any creature that is
possessed by or that has the Charmed or Frightened condition from such creatures isn't possessed,
Charmed, or Frightened by them while in the area.
Extra Effect. You bind an extra effect to the area
from the list below:
Courage.Creaturesofanytypesyouchoosecan1
gain the Frightened condition while in the area.
Darkness. Darkness fills the area. Normal light, as
well as magical light created by spells of a level
lower than this spell, can't illuminate the area.
Daylight. Bright light fills the area. Magical Darkness created by spells of a level lower than this
spell can't extinguish the light.
Peaceful Rest. Dead bodies interred in the area
can't be turned into Undead.
Extradimensional Interference. Creatures of any
types yo1 , choose can't enter or exit the area using
teleporta, ion or interplanar travel.
Fear. CrcaL :'es of any types you choose have the
Frighte1 t·d condition while in the area.
Resistance. Creatures of any types you choose have
Resistance to one damage type of your choice
while in the area.
Silence. No sound can emanate from within the
area, and no sound can reach into it.
Tongues. Creatures of any types you choose can
communicate with any other creature in the area
even if they don't share a common language.
Vulnerability. Creatures of any types you choose
have Vulnerability to one damage type of your
choice while in the area.
- ~
- -- -- -- - --
----- ------
-
HALLUCINATORY TERRAIN
Level 4 Illusion (Bard, Druid, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: 300 feet
Components: V, S, M (a mushroom)
Duration: 24 hours
You make natural terrain in a 150-foot Cube in
range look, sound, and smell like another sort of
natural terrain. Thus, open fields or a road can be
made to resemble a swamp, hill, crevasse, or some
other difficult or impassable terrain. A pond can be
made to seem like a grassy meadow, a precipice like
a gentle slope, or a rock-strewn gully like a wide and
smooth road. Manufactured structures, equipment,
and creatures within the area aren't changed.
The tactile characteristics of the terrain are unchanged, so creatures entering the area are likely
to notice the illusion. If the difference isn't obvious
by touch, a creature examining the illusion can take
the Study action to make an Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell save DC to disbelieve
it. If a creature discerns that the terrain is illusory,
the creature sees a vague image superimposed on
the real terrain.
HARM
Level 6 Necromancy (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You unleash virulent magic on a creature you can
see within range. The target makes a Constitution
saving throw. On a failed save, it takes 14d6 Ne·
crotic damage, and its Hit Point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the Necrotic damage
it took. On a successful save, it takes half as much
damage only. This spell can't reduce a target's Hit
Point maximum below 1.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
28~
