# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 20/387

§
u z r
Q,
The characters are exploring Castle Raven/oft, and the
OM describes the room the characters have entered.
Jared (as OM): A blazing hearth fire fills this room
with warm light. Firelight glints off a poker beside
the fireplace, and the wal ls are lined with ancient
books. A huge painting hangs above the mantelpiece in a gilded frame. The firelight illuminates
the portrait-an exact likeness of lreena Kolyana.
Phillip (as Gareth): How old does the painting look?
Maeve (as Mirabella): I'm going to check the books!
Jared: OK, I'll get to those in a second. Russell and
Amy, what are your characters doing?
Russell (as Shreeve): I stand near the door, sword
drawn, ready for danger. This place is creepy!
Amy (as Auro): I go near the fireplace. A warm fire
sounds nice. But I'm also alert for danger.
I
Jared: Got it. OK, Phillip, please make an ln_tel~igence
(History) check as Gareth looks at the painting.
'
Phillip: I don't have proficiency in History, but here
I goes. I got-oh! A 20! For a total of ... 20.
Jared: Two things leap out at Gareth about the painting. First, the woman's clothes look old-fashioned.
Second, the paint is flaking in places, and the
whole thing is covered by a thin layer of soot.
You'd say this painting is a few centuries old.
Phillip: So maybe an ancestor of lreena's? Unless
she's already a vampire and this "bitten by Strahd"
thing is a ruse.
Jared: Who knows? Now, Mirabella's looking at the
books?
Maeve: Yeah, I pull one off the shelf at random.
Everyone Is Accounted For. Exploration is
open-ended; the players don't take turns
moving around the dungeon the way they do
in combat. But the OM frequently checks in
to make sure it's clear where everyone is and
what they're doing.
Teamwork Matters. The player characters
are working toward a common goal. They
move together through the dungeon and
cooperate to overcome its challenges. When
the characters enter the room, they explore
different parts of the room. When Auro finds
a secret door behind the fireplace later in the
example, they come together again to examine it, and Gareth figures out how to bypass
the fire. It might seem like Russell's character wasn't doing much, but Shreeve was protecting the group by guarding the door.
Oo-i=========~
Worth Rolling with or without Proficiency.
You usually have a chance of success on
an ability check even if you don't have proficiency in a relevant skill. In the example,
Phillip gets a 20 without proficiency. The d20
brings many surprises to the game-surprises that the DM then interprets.
CH APTER l I PLAY ING THE GAME
