# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 231/387

HIRELINGS
Skilled hirelings include anyone hired to perform
a service that involves a proficiency (including
weapon, tool, or skill): a mercenary, an arti~an: a
scribe, or the like. The pay shown on the Htrelmgs
table is a minimum; some expert hirelings require
more pay. Untrained hirelings are hired for work
that requires no particular proficiencies; they include laborers and porters.
HIRELINGS
Service
Cost
Skilled hireling
Untrained hireling
Messenger
2 GP per day
2 SP per day
2 CP per mile
SPELLCASTING
Most settlements contain individuals who are willing to cast spells in exchange for payment. If a spell
has expensive components, add the cost of those
components to the cost listed in the Spellcasting
Services table. The higher the level of a desired
spell, the harder it is to find someone to cast it.
SPELLCASTING SERVICES
Spell Level
Availability
Cost
Cantrip
Village, town, or city
30 GP
l
Village, town, or city
50 GP
2
Village, town, or city
200 GP
3
Town or city only
300 GP
4-5
Town or city only
2,000 GP
6-8
City only
20,000 GP
9
City only
100,000 GP
MAGIC ITEMS
Adventures hold the promise-but not a guaranteeof finding magic items. Hundreds of magic items are
detailed in the Dungeon Master's Guide, since the DM
decides when you find such an item. Here's what
you need to know about using magic items.
I DENTIFYING A M AGIC ITEM
Some magic items are indistinguishable from their
nonmagical counterparts, while others are conspicuously magical. Handling a magic item is enough to
give you a sense that it is extraordinary, but learning a magic item's properties isn't automatic.
The Identify spell is the fastest way to reveal an
item's properties. Alternatively, you can focus on
one magic item during a Short Rest while being in
232
CH APT ER 6 I EQUI PMENT
physical contact with the item. At the encl of the
rest, you learn its properties and how to use them
(but not any curse the item might bear).
Sometimes a magic item carries a clue to its properties. The command word to activate a ring might
be etched inside the band, or a feathered design
might hint that it's a Ring of Feather· Falling.
Wearing or experimenting with an item can also
offer hints about its properties. In the specific case
of Potions, a little taste is enough to tell the taster
what a potion does. Other items might require
more experimentation. For example, if your character puts on a Ring of Swimming, the OM might say,
"Your movement feels strangely fluid." Perhaps you
then dive into a river to see what happens. The OM
would then say you swim unexpectedly well.
ATTUNEMENT
Some magic items require a creature to form a
bond-called Attunement- with them before the
creature can use an item's magical properties.
Without becoming attuned to an item that requires
Attunement, you gain only its nonmagical benefits
unless its description states otherwise. For example,
a magic Shield that requires Attunement provides
the benefits of a normal Shield if you aren't attuned
to it, but none of its magical properties.
ATTUNE DURING A SHORT REST
Attuning to an item requires you to spend a Short
Rest focused on only that item while being in physical contact with it (this can't be the same Short Rest
used to learn the item's properties). This focus can
take the form of weapon practice (for a Weapon),
meditation (for a Wand), or some other appropriate activity. If the Short Rest is interrupted, the
Attunement attempt fails. Otherwise, at the end of
the Short Rest, you're attuned to the magic item and
can access its full magical capabilities.
No MORE THAN THREE ITEMS
You can be attuned to no more than three magic
items at a time. Any attempt to attune to a fourth
item fails; you must end your Attunement to an item
first. Additionally, you can't attune to more than
one copy of an item. For example, you can't attune
to more than one Ring of Protection at a time.
EN DINGATTUNEMENT
Your Attunement to an item ends if you no longer
satisfy the prerequisites for Attunement, if the item
has been more than 100 feet away for at least 24
hours, if you die, or if another creature attunes to
the item. You can also voluntarily en<l Attunement
by spending another Short Rest focused on the item
unless the item is cursed.
