# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 241/387

ANTIPATHY/SYMPATHY
Level 8 Enchantment (Bard, Druid, Wizard)
Casting Time: l hour
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a mix of vinegar and honey)
Duration: 10 days
As you cast the spell, choose whether it creates antipathy or sympathy, and target one creature or object that is Huge or smaller. Then specify a kind of
creature, such as red dragons, goblins, or vampires.
A creature of the chosen kind makes a Wisdom
saving throw when it comes within 120 feet of the
target. Your choice of antipathy or sympathy determines what happens to a creature when it fails that
save:
Antipathy. The creature has the Frightened condition. The Frightened creature must use its movement on its turns to get as far away as possible
from the target, moving by the safest route.
Sympathy. The creature has the Charmed condition. The Charmed creature must use its movement on its turns to get as close as possible to the
target, moving by the safest route. If the creature
is within 5 feet of the target, the creature can't
willingly move away. If the target damages the
Charmed creature, that creature can make a Wisdom saving throw to end the effect, as described
below.
Ending the Effect. If the Frightened or Charmed
creature ends its turn more than 120 feet away
from the target, the creature makes a Wisdom saving throw. On a successful save, the creature is no
longer affected by the target. A creature that successfully saves against this effect is immune to it for
1 minute, after which it can be affected again.
ARCANE EYE
Level 4 Divination (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bit of bat fur)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You create an Invisible, invulnerable eye within
range that hovers for the duration. You mentally
receive visual information from the eye, which can
see in every direction. It also has Darkvision with a
range of 30 feet.
As a Bonus Action, you can move the eye up to 30
feet in any direction. A solid barrier blocks the eye's
movement, but the eye can pass through an opening
as small as 1 inch in diameter.
24,2
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
ARCANE GATE
Level 6 Conjuration (Sorcerer, Warlocl<, W iuird)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 500 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You create linked teleportation portals. Choose two
Large, unoccupied spaces on the ground that you
can see, one space within range and the other one
within 10 feet of you. A circular portal opens in
each of those spaces and remains for the duration.
The portals are two-dimensional glowing rings
filled with mist that blocks sight. They hover inches
from the ground and are perpendicular to it.
A portal is open on only one side (you choose
which). Anything entering the open side of a portal
exits from the open side of the other portal as if the
two were adjacent to each other. As a Bonus Action
you can change the facing of the open sides.
'
ARCANE LOCK
Level 2 Abjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
_,,. ...
Components: V, S, M (gold dust worth 25+ GP, which
the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled
You touch a closed door, window, gate, container,
or hatch and magically lock it for the duration. This
lock can't be unlocked by any nonmagical means.
You and any creatures you designate when you cast
the spell can open and close the object despite the
lock. You can also set a password that, when spoken
within 5 feet of the object, unlocks it for 1 minute.
ARCANE VIGOR
Level 2 Abjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: Self
Component: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You tap into your life force to heal yourself. Roll one
or two of your unexpended Hit Point Dice, and regain a number of Hit Points equal to the rail's total
plus your spellcasting ability modifier. Those dice
are then expended.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Th~ number of unexpended Hit Dice you can re i i r , :reases by one for
each spell slot level above 2.
