# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 330/387

TASHA'S Hro sous LAU G HTER
Level J Enchantment (Bard, Warlock, Wizard)
casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
components: V, S, M (a tart and a feather)
Duration: Concentration , up to l minute
One creature of your choice that you can see within
range makes a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed
save, it has the Prone and Incapacitated conditions
for the duration. During that time, it laughs uncontrollably if it's capable of laughter, and it can't end
the Prone condition on itself.
At the end of each of its turns and each time it
takes damage, it makes another Wisdom saving
throw. The target has Advantage on the save if the
save is triggered by damage. On a successful save,
the spell ends.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one
additional creature for each spell slot level about 1.
TELEKINESIS
Level 5 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You gain the ability to move or manipulate creatures or objects by thought. When you cast the spell
and as a Magic action on your later turns before the
spell ends, you can exert your will on one creature
or object that you can see within range, causing the
appropriate effect below. You can affect the same
t::rr,et round after round or choose a new one at any
time. 1f you switch targets. !:hP. prior target is no
longer affected by the spell.
Creature. You can try to move a Huge or smaller
creature. The target must succeed on a Strength
saving throw, or you move it up to 30 feet in any
direction within the spell's range. Until the end of
your next turn, the creature has the Restrained condition, and if you lift it into the air, it is suspended
there. It falls at the end of your next turn unless you
use this option on it again and it fails the save.
Object. You can try to move a Huge or smaller
object. If the object isn't being worn or carried, you
automatically move it up to 30 feet in any direction
within the spell's r~rnge.
If the object is ·om or carried by a creature, that
creature must su(·c.Cc'cd on a Strength saving throw,
or you pull the obj<::ct away and move it up to 30
feet in any di rec\:• , 11 within the spell's range.
You can exerl fi. ·, ' control on objects with your
telekinetic grip, :,, .,_.h as manipulating a simple tool,
~~~~ing t door or a container, stowing or retrieving
te It efm rom ~n open container, or pouring the conn s rom a vial.
TELEPATHY
Level 8 Divination (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Unlimited
Comp_onents: V, S, M (a pair of linked silver rings)
Duration: 24 hours
Y~u_create a telepathic link between yourself and a
w1llmg creature with which you are familiar. The
~reature can be anywhere on the same plane of existence as you. The spell ends if you or the target are
no longer on the same plane.
Until the spell ends, you and the target can instantly share words, images, sounds, and other
sensory messages with each other through the link,
and the target recognizes you as the creature it is
communicating with. The spell enables a creature
to understand the meaning of your words and any
sensory messages you send to it.
TELEPORT
Level 7 Conjuration (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 10 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
This spell instantly transports you and up to eight
willing creatures that you can see within range, or a
single object that you can see within range, to a destination you select. If you target an object, it must
be Large or smaller, and it can't be held or carried
by an unwilling creature.
The destination you choose must be known to
you, and it must be on the same plane of existence
as you. Your familiarity with the destination determines whether you arrive there successfully. The
OM rolls ldlOO and consults the Teleportation Outcome table and the explanations after it.
TELEP0RTATI0N OUTCOME
Similar
Off
On
Familiarity
Mishap
Area
Target Target
Permanent circle
01-00
Linked object
01-00
Very familiar
01-05
06-13
14-24 25-00
Seen casually
01-33
34-43 44-53 54-00
Viewed once or
01-43
44-53 54-73 74-00
described
False destination
01-50
51-00
H PTER 7 I SPELLS
