# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 317/387

SLOW
Level J Transmutation (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a drop of molasses)
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
You alter time around up to six creatures of your
choice in a 40-foot Cube within range. Each target
must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be affected by this spell for the duration.
An affected target's Speed is halved, it takes a -2
penalty to AC and Dexterity saving throws, and it
can't take Reactions. On its turns, it can take either
an action or a Bonus Action, not both, and it can
make only one attack if it takes the Attack action.
If it casts a spell with a Somatic component, there is
a 25 percent chance the spell fails as a result of the
target making the spell's gestures too slowly.
An affected target repeats the save at the end
of each of its turns, ending the spell on itself on a
success.
SORCEROUS BURST
Cantrip Evocation (Sorcerer)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Component: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You cast sorcerous energy at one creature or object
within range. Make a ranged attack roll against the
target. On a hit, the target takes ld8 damage of a
type you choose: Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, Poison,
Psychic, or Thunder.
If you roll an 8 on a d8 for this spell, you can roll
another d8, and add it to the damage. When you
cast this spell, the maximum number of these d8s
you can add to the spell's damage equals your spellcasting ability modifier.
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by ld8
when you reach levels S (2d8), 11 (3d8), and 17 (4d8).
--- -- -- ----
S PARE THE D YING
Necromancy Cantrip (Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 15 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Choose a creature within range that has O Hit
Points and isn't dead. The creature becomes Stable.
Cantrip Upgrade. The range doubles when you
reach levels 5 (30 feet), 11 (60 feet), and 17 (120 feet).
A HUM/IN DRUID USES S PE/11(
WITH 4NIMI\LS TO C.H/\T \VITH
HIS BEST BEIIR FRIEND.
SPEAK WITH ANIMALS
Level 1 Divination (Bard, Druid, Ranger, Warlock)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: 10 minutes
For the duration, you can comprehend and verbally
communicate with Beasts, and you can use any of
the Influence action's skill options with them.
Most Beasts have little to say about topics that
don't pertain to survival or companionship, but at
minimum, a Beast can give you information about
nearby locations and monsters, including whatever
it has perceived within the past day.
SPEAK WITH D EAD
Level 3 Necromancy (Bard, Cleric, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: l O feet
Components: V, S, M (burning incense)
Duration: 10 minutes
You grant the semblance of life to a corpse of your
choice within range, allowing it to answer questions you pose. The corpse must ,,a re a mouth, and
this spell fails if the deceased cte ;:, :--e was Undead
when it died. The spell also f,iiL ;f 1 n, corpse was
the target of this spell within rh~ 1 t 10 days.
