# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 41/387

ADVE N T UR ING EQ.U I P M E N T IM PROV ES
AS A C.HA R IIC. TE R PROGRESS ES THR O UGH
THE TI ER S OF P L AY.
GAINING A LEVEL
When you gain a level, follow these steps:
1: Choose a Class. Most characters advance in the
same class. However, you might decide to gain a
level in another class using the rules in the "Multiclassing" section later in this chapter.
2: Adjust Hit Points and Hit Point Dice. Each time
you gain a level, you gain an additional Hit Die.
Roll that die, add your Constitution modifier to
the roll, and add the total (minimum of 1) to your
Hit Point maximum. Instead of rolling, you can
use the fixed value shown in the Fixed Hit Points
by Class table.
FIXED HIT POINTS BY CLASS
Class
Barbarian
Fighter, Paladin, or Ranger
Bard, Cleric, Druid, Monk,
Rogue, or Warlock
Sorcerer or Wizard
Hit Points per Level
7 + Con. modifier
6 + Con. modifier
5 + Con. modifier
4 + Con. modifier
.f.2
CHAPTER 2 I CREATI NG A CHARACTER
3: Record New Class Features. Look at your class
features table in chapter 3, and note the features
you gain at your new level in that class. Make any
choices offered by a new feature.
4: Adjust Proficiency Bonus. A character's Proficiency Bonus increases at certain levels, as shown
in the Character Advancement table and your
class features table in chapter 3. When your Proficiency Bonus increases, increase all the numbers on your character sheet that include your
Proficiency Bonus.
5: Adjust Ability Modifiers. If you choose a feat
that increases one or more of your ability scores,
your ability modifier also changes if the new
score is an even number. When that happens, adjust all the numbers on your character sheet that
use that ability modifier. When your Constitution
modifier increases by 1, your Hit Point maximum
increases by 1 for each level you have attained.
For example, if a character reaches level 8 and
increases their Constitution score from 17 to 18,
the Constitution modifier increases to +4. The
character's Hit Point maximum then increases by
8, in addition to the Hit Points gained for reaching level 8 .
