# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 97/387

Fighter, your list of prepared spells can include five
Wizard spells of levels 1 and 2 in any combination.
Changing Your Prepared Spells. Whenever you
gain a Fighter level, you can replace one spell on
your list with another Wizard spell for which you
have spell slots.
Spellcasting Ability. Intelligence is your spellcasting ability for your Wizard spells.
Spellcasting Focus. You can use an Arcane Focus
as a Spellcasting Focus for your Wizard spells.
LEVEL 3: WAR BOND
You learn a ritual that creates a magical bond between yourself and one weapon. You perform the
ritual over the course of 1 hour, which can be done
during a Short Rest. The weapon must be within
your reach throughout the ritual, at the conclusion
of which you touch the weapon and forge the bond.
The bond fails if another Fighter is bonded to the
weapon or if the weapon is a magic item to which
someone else is attuned.
Once you have bonded a weapon to yourself, you
can't be disarmed of that weapon unless you have
the Incapacitated condition. If it is on the same
plane of existence, you can summon that weapon as
a Bonus Action, causing it to teleport instantly to
your hand.
You can have up to two bonded weapons, but you
can summon only one at a time with a Bonus Action. If you attempt to bond with a third weapon,
you must break the bond with one of the other two.
LEVEL 7: WAR MAGIC
When you take the Attack action on your turn, you
can replace one of the attacks with a casting of one
of your Wizard cantrips that has a casting time of
an action.
LEVEL 10: ELDRITCH STRIKE
You learn how to make your weapon strikes undercut a creature's ability to withstand your spells.
When you hit a creature with an attack using a
weapon, that creature has Disadvantage on the next
saving throw it makes against a spell you cast before the end of your next turn.
LEVEL 15: ARCANE CHARGE
When you use your Action Surge, you can teleport up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space you can
see. You can teleport before or after the additional
action.
L EVEL ]8: I MPROVED WAR MAGIC
When you take the Attack action on your turn, you
can replace two of the attacks with a casting of one
of your level 1 or level 2 Wizard spells that has a
casting time of an action.
98
r; H APTE R 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES
PSI WARRIOR
Augment Physical Might with Psionic Power
Psi Warriors awaken the power of their minds to
augment their physical might. They harness this
psionic power to infuse their weapon strikes, lash
out with telekinetic energy, and create barriers of
mental force.
LEVEL 3: PSIONIC POWER
You harbor a wellspring of psionic energy within
yourself. It is represented by your Psionic Energy
Dice, which fuel powers you have from this subclass. The Psi Warrior Energy Dice table shows the
die size and number of these dice you have when
you reach certain Fighter levels.
PSI WARRIOR ENERGY DICE
Fighter Level
Die Size
Number
3
D6
4
5
D8
6
9
D8
8
11
D10
8
13
D10
10
17
D12
12
Any features in this subclass that use a Psionic Energy Die use only the dice from this subclass. Some
of your powers expend the Psionic Energy Die, as
specified in a power's description, and you can't use
a power if it requires you to use a die when all your
Psionic Energy Dice are expended.
You regain one of your expended Psionic Energy
Dice when you finish a Short Rest, and you regain
all of them when you finish a Long Rest.
Protective Field. When you or another creature
you can see within 30 feet of you takes damage, you
can take a Reaction to expend one Psionic Energy
Die, roll the die, and reduce the damage taken by
the number rolled plus your Intelligence modifier
(minimum reduction of 1), as you create a momentary shield of telekinetic force.
Psionic Strike. You can propel your weapons with
psionic force. Once on each of your turns, immediately after you hit a target within 30 feet of yourself
with an attack and deal damage to it with a weapon,
you can expend one Psionic Energy Die, rolling it
and dealing Force damage to the target equal to the
number rolled plus your Intelligence modifier.
Telekinetic Movement. You can move an object
or a creature with your mind. As a Magic action,
choose one target you can see within 30 feet of
yourself; the target must be a loose obj':'ct that is
Large or smaller or one willing creature other than
you. You transport the target up to 30 foet to an
