# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 261/387

DETECT MAGIC
Level 1 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger,
Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
For the duration, you sense the presence of magical
effects within 30 feet of yourself. If you sense such
effects, you can take the Magic action to see a faint
aura around any visible creature or object in the
area that bears the magic, and if an effect was created by a spell, you learn the spell's school of magic.
The spell is blocked by 1 foot of stone, dirt, or
wood; 1 inch of metal; or a thin sheet of lead.
DETECT POISON AND DISEASE
Level 1 Divination (Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a yew leaf)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
For the duration, you sense the location of poisons,
poisonous or venomous creatures, and magical
contagions within 30 feet of yourself. You sense the
kind of poison, creature, or contagion in each case.
The spell is blocked by 1 foot of stone, dirt, or
wood; 1 inch of metal; or a thin sheet of lead.
DETECT THOUGHTS
Level 2 Divination (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (1 Copper Piece)
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
You activate one of the effects below. Until the spell
ends, you can activate either effect as a Magic action on your later turns.
Sense Thoughts. You sense the presence of
thoughts within 30 feet of yourself that belong to
creatures that know languages or are telepathic.
You don't read the thoughts, but you know that a
thinking creature is present.
The spell is blocked by 1 foot of stone, dirt, or
wood; 1 inch of metal; or a thin sheet of lead.
Read Thoughts. Target one creature you can see
within 30 feet of yourself or one creature within
30 feet of yourself that you detected with the Sense
Thoughts option. You learn what is most on the target's mind right now. If the target doesn't know any
languages and isn't telepathic, you learn nothing.
CHAPTER 7 SPELLS
As a Magic action on your nex t ~-• t ,1 you
.
•
can try
to probe deeper mto the target's 1 .i,1d. If you prob
deeper, the target makes a Wisdom •·aving thr
e
On a failed save, you discern the taro-et's reas
0':·
.
0
oning
emotions, and someth ing that looms large in its
'
mind (such as a worry, love, or hate) On a sue
•
cessful save, the spell ends. Either way, the target k
h
b.
.
.
.
nows
t at you are pro mg m to its mmd, and until you
shift your attention away from the target's mind
the target can take an action on its turn to make.an
Intelligence (Arcana) check against your spell save
DC, ending the spell on a success.
DI MEN SI ON DOOR
Level 4 Conjuration (Ba ,·d. Sorcerer, W arlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 500 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
You teleport to a location within range. You arrive
at exactly the spot desired. It can be a place you can
see, one you can visualize, or one you can describe
by stating distance and direction, such as "200 feet
straight downward" or "300 feet upward to the
northwest at a 45-degree angle."
You can also teleport one willing creature. The
creature must be within 5 feet of you when you
teleport, and it teleports to a space within 5 feet of
your destination space.
If you, the other creature, or both would arrive in
a space occupied by a creature or completely filled
by one or more objects, you and any creature traveling with you each take 4d6 Force damage, and the
telepor tation fa ils.
DISGUISE SELF
Level 1 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: l hour
You make yourself-including your clothing, armor,
weapons, and other belongings on your personlook different until the spell ends. You can seem
1 foot shorter or taller and can appear heavier or
lighter. You must adopt a form that has the same
basic arrangement of limbs as you have. Otherwise,
the extent of the illusion is up to you.
The changes wrought by this spell fail to hold
up to physical inspection. For example, if you use
this spell to add a hat 1:0 your outfit, objects pass
through the hat, and a ·1 /ane who touches it would
feel nothing.
