# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 314/387

SEQUESTER
Level 7 Transmutation (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (gem dust worth 5,000+ GP,
which the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled
With a touch, you magically sequester an object or a
willing creature. For the duration, the target has the
Invisible condition and can't be targeted by Divination spells, detected by magic, or viewed remotely
with magic.
If the target is a creature, it enters a state of suspended animation; it has the Unconscious condition,
doesn't age, and doesn't need food, water, or air.
You can set a condition for the spell to end early.
The condition can be anything you choose, but it
must occur or be visible within 1 mile of the target.
Examples include "after 1,000 years" or "when the
tarrasque awakens." This spell also ends if the target takes any damage.
SHAPECHANGE
Level 9 Transmutation (Druid, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a jade circlet worth 1,500+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to l hour
You shape-shift into another creature for the duration or until you take a Magic action to shape-shift
into a different eligible form. The new form must be
of a creature that has a Challenge Rating no higher
than your level or Challenge Rating. You must have
seen the sort of creature before, and it can't be a
Construct or an Undead.
When you shape-shift, you gain a number of
Temporary Hit Points equal to the Hit Points of the
form. The spell ends early if you have no Temporary
Hit Points left.
Your game statistics are replaced by the stat block
of the chosen form, but you retain your creature
type; alignment; personality; Intelligence, Wisdom,
and Charisma scores; Hit Points; Hit Point Dice;
proficiencies; and ability to communicate. If you
have the Spellcasting feature, you retain it too.
Upon shape-shifting, you determine whether your
equipment drops to the ground or changes in size
and shape to fit the new form while you're in it.
OHAPTBll 7 I SPELLS
