# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 93/387

L E VEL 3: S T UDE N T O F W AR
You gain proficiency with one type of Artisan's
Tools of your choice, and you gain proficiency in
one skill of your choice from the skills avai lable to
Fighters at level 1.
LEVEL 7: KNOW YOU R ENEMY
As a Bonus Action, you can discern certa in
strengths and weaknesses of a creatu re you can see
within 30 feet of yourself; you know whether that
creature has any Immunities, Resistances, or Vulnerabilities, and if the creature has any, you know
what they are.
Once you use this feature, you can't do so again
until you finish a Long Rest. You can also restore a
use of the feature by expending one Superior ity Die
(no action required).
LEVEL 10: IMPROVED COMBAT SUPERIORITY
Your Superiority Die becomes a dl 0 .
LEVEL 15: RELENTLESS
Once per turn, when you use a maneuver, you can
roll ld8 and use the number rolled instead of expending a Superiority Die.
LEVEL 18: ULTIMATE COMBAT SUPERIORITY
Your Superiority Die becomes a d12.
MANEUVER OPTIONS
The maneuvers are presented here in alphabetical
order.
Ambush. When you make a Dexterity (Stealth)
check or an Initiative roll, you can expend one
Superiority Die and add the die to the roll, unless
you have the Incapacitated condition.
Bait and Switch. When you're within 5 feet of a
creature on your turn, you can expend one Superiority Die and switch places with that creature,
provided you spend at least 5 feet of movement and
the creature is willing and doesn't have the Incapacitated condition. This movement doesn't provoke Opportunity Attacks.
Roll the Superiority Die. Until the start of your
next turn, you or the other creature (your choice)
gains a bonus to AC equal to the number rolled.
Commander's Strike. When you take the Attack
action on your turn, you can replace one of your
attacks to direct one of your companions to strike.
When you do so, choose a willing creature who can
see or hear you and expend one Superiority Die.
That creature can immediately use its Reaction to
make one attack with a weapon or an Unarmed
Strike, adding the Superior ity Die to the attack's
damage roll on a hit.
