# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 152/387

CORE W :\RLOCK TRAITS
Primary Ability
Charisma
Hit Point Die
D8 per Warlock level
Saving Throw
Wisdom and Charisma
Proficiencies
1 skill Proficiencies
Weapon Proficiencies
Armor Training
Starting Equipment
Choose 2: Arcana, Deception,
History, Intimidation, Investigation, Nature, or Religion
Simple weapons
Light armor
Choose A or B: (A) Leather
Armor, Sickle, 2 Daggers,
Arcane Focus (orb), Book
(occult lore), Scholar's Pack,
and 15 GP; or (B) 100 GP
ARLOCKS QUEST FOR KNOWLEDGE
that lies hidden in the fabric of the multiverse. They often begin their search for
magical power by delving into tomes of forbidden
lore, dabbling in invocations meant to attract the
power of extra planar beings, or seeking places of
power where the influence of these beings can be
felt. In no time, each Warlock is drawn into a binding pact with a powerful patron. Drawing on the
ancient knowledge of beings such as angels, archfey,
demons, devils, hags, and alien entities of the Far
Realm, Warlocks piece together arcane secrets to
bolster their own power.
Warlocks view their patrons as resources, as
means to the end of achieving magical power. Some
Warlocks respect, revere, or even love their patrons;
some serve their patrons grudgingly; and some seek
to undermine their patrons even as they wield the
power their patrons have given them.
Once a pact is made, a Warlock's thirst for knowledge and power can't be slaked with mere study.
Most Warlocks spend their days pursuing greater
power and deeper knowledge, which typically
means some kind of adventure.
BECOMING A WARLOCK
As A LEVE L 1 CHARACTER
Gain all the traits in the Core Warlock Traits
table.
Gain the Warlock's level 1 features, which are
listed in the \A/arlock Features table.
As A MULTICLASS CHARACTER
• Gain the following traits from the Core Warlock
Traits table: Hit Point Die and training with Light
armor.
• Gain the Warlock's level 1 features, which are
listed in the Warlock Features table. See the multiclassing rules in chapter 2 to determine your
available spell slots.
WARLOCK CLASS FEATURES
As a Warlock, you gain the following class features
when you reach the specified Warlock levels. These
features are listed in the Warlock Features table.
LEVEL l: ELDRITCH INVOCATIONS
; You have unearthed Eldritch Invocations, pieces of
forbidden knowledge that imbue you with an abiding magical ability or other lessons. You gain one
invocation of your choice, such as Pact of the Tome.
Invocations are described in the "Eldritch Invocation Options" section later in this class's description.
Prerequisites. If an invocation has a prerequisite,
you must meet it to learn that invocation. For example, if an invocation requires you to be a level S+
Warlock, you can select the invocation once you
reach Warlock level 5.
Replacing and Gaining Invocations. Whenever you
gain a Warlock level, you can replace one of your
invocations with another one for which you qualify.
You can't replace an invocation if it's a prerequisite
for another invocation that you have.
When you gain certain Warlock levels, you gain
more invocations of your choice, as shown in the
Invocations column of the Warlock Features table.
You can't pick the same invocation more than
once unless its description says otherwise.
LEVEL l: PACT MAGIC
Through occult ceremony, you have formed a pact
with a mysterious entity to gain magical powers.
The entity is a voice in the shadows-its identity
unclear-but its boon to you is concrete: the ability
to cast spells. See chapter 7 for the rules on spellcasting. The information below details how you use
those rules with Warlock spells, which appear in the
Warlock spell list later in the class's description.
Cantrips. You know two Warlock cantrips of your
choice. Eldritch Blast and Prestidigitation are recommended. Whenever you gain a Warlock level, you
can replace one of your cantrips from this feature
with another Warlock can trip of your choice.
When you reach Warlock levels 4 and 10, you
learn another Warlock cantrip of your choice, as
shown in the Cantrips column of the Warlock Features table.
CH APT ER 3 I CHA RACTE R CL ASS ES
153
