# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 247/387

Blinded condition until the spell ends. At the end of
each of its turns, the Blinded target makes a Constitution saving throw, ending the spell on itself on a
success.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The extra damage
increases by ld8 for each spell slot level above 3.
BLINDNESS/DEAFNESS
Level 2 TI-ansmutation (Bard, Cleric, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V
Duration: 1 minute
One creature that you can see within range must
succeed on a Constitution saving throw, or it has
the Blinded or Deafened condition (your choice)
for the duration. At the end of each of its turns, the
target repeats the save, ending the spell on itself on
a success.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one
additional creature for each spell slot level above 2.
BLINK
Level 3 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 minute
Roll ld6 at the end of each of your turns for the duration. On a roll of 4-6, you vanish from your current plane of existence and appear in the Ethereal
Plane (the spell ends instantly if you are already on
that plane). While on the Ethereal Plane, you can
perceive the plane you left, which is cast in shades
of gray, but you can't see anything there more than
60 feet away. You can affect and be affected only
by other creatures on the Ethereal Plane, and creatures on the other plane can't perceive you unless
they have a special ability that lets them perceive
things on the Ethereal Plane.
You return to the other plane at the start of your
next turn and when the spell ends if you are on the
Ethereal Plane. You return to an unoccupied space
of your choice that you can see within 10 feet of the
space you left. If no unoccupied space is available
within that range, you appear in the nearest unoccupied space.
248
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
BLUR
Level 2 Illusion (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration , up to 1 minute
Your body becomes blurred. For the duration, any
creature has Disadvantage on attack rolls against
you. An attacker is immune to this effect if it perceives you with Blindsight or Truesight.
BURNING HANDS
Level 1 Evocation (Sorcerer~ Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
A thin sheet of flames shoots forth from you. Each
creature in a 15-foot Cone makes a Dexterity saving
throw, taking 3d6 Fire damage on a failed save or
half as much damage on a successful one.
Flammable objects in the Cone that aren't being
worn or carried start burning.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage increases by ld6 for each spell slot level above 1.
CALL LIGHTNING
Level 3 Conjuration (Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
A storm cloud appears at a point within range that
you can see above yourself. It takes the shape of a
Cylinder that is 10 feet tall with a 60-foot radius.
When you cast the spell, choose a point you can
see under"the cloud. A lightning bolt shoots from
the cloud to that point. Each creature within 5 feet
of that point makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 3d10 Lightning damage on a failed save or half
as much damage on a successful one.
Until the spell ends, you can take a Magic action
to call down lightning in that way again, targeting
the same point or a different one.
If you're outdoors in a storm when you cast this
spell, the spell gives you control over that storm instead of creating a new one. Undi':r such conditions,
the spell's damage increases by 1d to.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. ') 'he damage increases by ldlO for each spc·ll slo: kvcl above 3.
