# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 258/387

Usinu a Higher-Level Spell Slot. If you use a level 7
spell slot, you can animate or reassert control over
four Ghouls. If you use a level 8 spell slot, you can
animate or i·eassert control over five Ghouls or two
Ghasts or W ights. If you use a level 9 spell slot, you
can animate or reassert control over six Ghouls,
three Ghasts or Wights, or two Mummies. See the
Monster Manual for these stat blocks.
CREATION
Level 5 Illusion (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: l minute
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a paintbrush)
Duration: Special
You pull wisps of shadow material from the Shadowfell to create an object within range. It is either
an object of vegetable matter (soft goods, rope,
wood, and the like) or mineral matter (stone, crystal, metal, and the like). The object must be no
larger than a 5-foot Cube, and the object must be of
a form and material that you have seen.
The spell's duration depends on the object's material, as shown in the Materials table. If the object
is composed of multiple materials, use the shortest
duration. Using any object created by this spell as
another spell's Material component causes the other
spell to fail.
MATERIALS
Material
Vegetable matter
Stone or crystal
Precious metals
Duration
24 hours
12 hours
l hour
Gems
10 minutes
Adamantine or mithral
l minute
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Cube increases
by 5 feet for each spell slot level above 5.
CROWN O F MA DN ESS
Level 2 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
One creatu re that you can see within range must
succeed on n Wisdom saving throw or have the
Charmed c:undition for the duration. The creature
succeeds auto 1atically if it isn't Humanoid.
A spectral r i· lWn appears on the Charmed target's
head, and it r,· l,5 1: use its action before moving on
each of its turns to make a melee attack against a
creature other than itself that you mentally choose.
The target can act normally on its turn if you
choose no creature or if no creature is within its
reach. The target repeats the save at the end of each
of its turns, ending the spell on itself on a success.
On your later turns, you must take the Magic action to maintain control of the target, or the spell
ends.
CRUSADER'S MANTLE
Level 3 Evocation (Paladin)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
You radiate a magical aura in a 30-foot Emanation.
While in the aura, you and your allies each deal
an extra ld4 Radiant damage when hitting with a
weapon or an Unarmed Strike.
CURE WOUNDS
Level 1 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
A creature you touch regains a number of Hit
Points equal to 2d8 plus your spellcasting ability
modifier.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing increases by 2d8 for each spell slot level above 1.
DANCING LIGHTS
Illusion Cantrip (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bit of phosphorus)
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
You create up to four torch-size lights within range,
making them appear as torches, lanterns, or glowing orbs that hover for the duration. Alternatively,
you combine the four lights into one glowing Medium form that is vaguely humanlike. Whichever
form you choose, each light sheds Dim Light in a
10-foot radius.
As a Bonus Action, you can move the lights up
to 60 feet to a space within range. A light must be
within 20 feet of another light created by this spell,
and a light vanishes if it exceeds the spell's range.
CHAPT ER 7 I SPEL LS
259
