# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 206/387

spells' spelk .,sting ability is the abi~ity increase~
b this feat. \Vhenever your Proficiency Bonus mc:eases thereafter, you can add an additional level
1 spell with the Ritual tag to the spells always preared with this feature.
p Quiel< Ritual. With this benefit, you can cast a
Ritual spell that you have prepared using its regular
casting time rather than the extended time for a Ritual. Doing so doesn't require a spell slot. Once you
cast the spell in this way, you can't use this benefit
again until you finish a Long Rest.
SENTINEL
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Strength or
Dexterity 13+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or
Dexterity score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Guardian. Immediately after a creature within 5
feet of you takes the Disengage action or hits a target other than you with an attack, you can make an
Opportunity Attack against that creature.
Halt. When you hit a creature with an Opportunity Attack, the creature's Speed becomes O for the
rest of the current turn.
S H ADOW-TOUCHED
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)
Your exposure to the Shadowfell's magic grants you
the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Intelligence,
Wisdom, or Charisma score by 1, to a maximum of
20.
Shadow Magic. Choose one level 1 spell from the
Illusion or Necromancy school of magic. You always
have that spell and the Invisibility spell prepared.
You can cast each of these spells without expending
a spell slot. Once you cast either spell in this way,
you can't cast that spell in this way again until you
finish a Long Rest. You can also cast these spells using spell slots you have of the appropriate level. The
spells' spellcasting ability is the ability increased by
this feat.
S HARPSH OOTER
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Dexterity 13+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Dexterity
score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Bypass Cover. Your ranged attacks with weapons
ignore Half C,w cr and Three-Quarters Cover.
Firing in Melee. Being within 5 feet of an enemy
doesn't impose Disadvantage on your attack rolls
with Ranged weapons.
Long Shots. Attacking at long range doesn't impose Disadvantage on your attack rolls with Ranged
weapons.
SHIELD MASTER
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Shield Training)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength
score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Shield Bash. If you attack a creature within 5 feet
of you as part of the Attack action and hit with a
Melee weapon, you can immediately bash the target
with your Shield if it's equipped, forcing the target
to make a Strength saving throw (DC 8 plus your
Strength modifier and Proficiency Bonus). On a
failed save, you either push the target 5 feet from
you or cause it to have the Prone condition {your
choice). You can use this benefit only once on each
of your turns.
Interpose Shield. If you're subjected to an effect
that allows you to make a Dexterity saving throw to
take only half damage, you can take a Reaction to
take no damage if you succeed on the saving throw
and are holding a Shield.
SKILL EXPERT
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of
your choice by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Skill Proficiency. You gain proficiency in one skill
of your choice.
Expertise. Choose one skill in which you have proficiency but lack Expertise. You gain Expertise with
that skill.
CHAPTER 5 I FEATS
207
