# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 316/387

O F THE M UND A N E
/\ NO THE WHIMSICAL
SILENT IMAGE
Level 1 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bit of fleece)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You create the image of an object, a creature, or
some other visible phenomenon that is no larger
than a 15-foot Cube. The image appears at a spot
within range and lasts for the duration. The image is
purely visual; it isn't accompanied by sound, smell,
or other sensory effects.
As a Magic action, you can cause the image
to move to any spot within range. As the image
changes location, you can alter its appearance so
that its movements appear natural for the image.
For example, if you create an image of a creature
and move it, you can alter the image so that it appears to be walking.
Physical interaction with the image reveals it to be
an illusion, since things can pass through it. A creature that takes a Study action to examine the image
can determine that it is an illusion with a successful
Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell
save DC. If a creature discerns the illusion for what
it is, the creature can see through the image.
SI MULACRU M
Level 7 Illusion (Wizard)
Casting Time: 12 hours
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (powdered ruby worth 1,500+
GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled
You create a Jii..ulacrum of one Beast or Humanoid
that is within JO feet of you for the entire casting
of the spell. Yi .. u fi nish the casting by touching both
the creature and a pile of ice or snow that is the
same size as that creature, and the pile turns into
the simulacrum, which is a creature. It uses the
game statistics of the original creature at the time
of casting, except it is a Construct, its Hit Point
maximum is half as much, and it can't cast this spell.
The simulacrum is Friendly to you and creatures
you designate. It obeys your commands and acts on
your turn in combat. The simulacrum can't gain levels, and it can't take Short or Long Rests.
If the simulacrum takes damage, the only way
to restore its Hit Points is to repair it as you take a
Long Rest, during which you expend components
worth 100 GP per Hit Point restored. The simulacrum must stay within 5 feet of you for the repair.
The simulacrum lasts until it drops to O Hit
Points, at which point it reverts to snow and melts
away. If you cast this spell again, any simulacrum
you created with this spell is instantly destroyed.
SLEEP
Level 1 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of sand or rose petals)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Each creature of your choice in a 5-foot-radius
Sphere centered on a point within range must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the Incapacitated condition until the end of its next turn,
at which point it must repeat the save. If the target
fails the second save, the target has the Unconscious
condition for the duration. The spell ends on a target if it takes damage or someone within 5 feet of it
takes an action to shake it out of the spell's effect.
Creatures that don't sleep, such as elves, or that
have Immunity to the Exhaustion condition automatically succeed on saves against this spell.
SLEET STORM
Level 3 Conjuration (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 1 SO feet
Components: V, S, M {a miniature umbrella)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Until the spell ends, sleet falls in a 40-foot-tall,
20-foot-radius Cylinder centered on a point you
choose within range. The area is Heavily Obscured,
and exposed flames in the area are doused.
Ground in the Cylinder is Difficult Terrain. When
a creature enters the Cylinder for the first time on
a turn or starts its turn there, it must succeed on a
Dexterity saving throw or have the Prone condition
and lose Concentration.
CH APTER 7 I SPE LLS
~17
