# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 148/387

LEVEL ii\: DRAGO N C OMPANION
You can cast Summon Dragon without a Material
component. You can also cast it once without a spell
slot, and you regain the ability to cast it in this way
when you finish a Long Rest.
Whenever you start casting the spell, you can
modify it so that it doesn't require Concentration. If
you do so, the spell's duration becomes 1 minute for
that casting.
WILD MAGIC SORCERY
Unleash Chaotic Magic
Your innate magic stems from the forces of chaos
that underlie the order of creation. You or an
ancestor might have endured exposure to raw
magic, perhaps through a planar portal leading
to Limbo or the Elemental Planes. Perhaps you
were blessed by a fey being or marked by a demon. Or your magic could be a fluke with no
apparent cause. Whatever its source, this magic
churns within you, waiting for any outlet.
LEVEL 3: W ILD M AGIC SURGE
Your spellcasting can unleash surges of untamed
magic. Once per turn, you can roll ld20 immediately after you cast a Sorcerer spell with a spell slot.
If you roll a 20, roll on the Wild Magic Surge table
to create a magical effect.
If the magical effect is a spell, it is too wild to be
affected by your Meta magic.
LEV EL 3: TIDES OF C H AOS
You can manipulate chaos itself to give yourself
Advantage on one D20 Test before you roll the
d20. Once you do so, you must cast a Sorcerer
spell with a spell slot or finish a Long Rest before you can use this feature again.
If you do cast a Sorcerer spell with a spell
slot before you finish a Long Rest, you automatically roll on the Wild Magic Surge table.
LEVEL 6: B EN D LUCK
You have the ability to twist fate using your
wild magic. Immediately after another creature
you can see rolls the d20 for a D20 Test, you can
take a Reaction and spend 1 Sorcery Point to roll
ld4 and apply the number rolled as a bonus or
penalty (your choice) to the d20 roll.
LEVEL 14 : C ONTROLLED C HAOS
You gain a modicum of control over the surges of
your wild magic. Whenever you roll on the Wild
Magic Surge table, you can roll twice and use either number.
