# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 363/387

CONE [AREA OF EFFECT]
A Cone is an area of effect that extends in straight
lines from a point of origin in a direction its creator chooses. A Cone's width at any point along
its length is equal to that point's distance from ~he
point of origin. For example, a Cone is 15 feet wide
at a point along its length that is 15 feet from the .
point of origin. The effect that creates a Cone specifies its maximum length.
A Cone's point of origin isn't included in the area
of effect unless its creator decides otherwise.
COVER
Cover provides a degree of protection to a target
behind it. There are three degrees of cover, each
of which provides a different benefit to a target:
Half Cover (+2 bonus to AC and Dexterity saving
throws), Three-Quarters Cover (+5 bonus to AC and
Dexterity saving throws), and Total Cover (can't be
targeted directly). If behind more than one degree
of cover, a target benefits only from the most protective degree. See also chapter 1 ("Combat").
·------;:.,;:::-
C RAWLING
While you're crawling, each foot of movement costs
1 extra foot (2 extra feet in Difficult Terrain). See
also "Speed."
CREATURE
Any being in the game, including a player's character, is a creature. See also "Creature Type."
CREATURE TYPE
Every creature, including every player character,
has a tag in the rules that identifies the type of creature.it is. Most player characters are of the Humanoid ty.pe. These are the game's creature types:
Aberration
Elemental
Monstrosity
Beast
Fey
Ooze
Celestial
Fiend
Plant
Construct
Giant
Undead
Dragon
Humanoid
The types don't have rules themselves, but some
rules in the game affect creatures of certain types
in different ways.
CRITICAL HIT
If you roll a 20 on the d20 for an attack roll, you
score a Critical Hit, and the attack hits regardless of
any modifiers or the target's AC. A Critical Hit lets
APPENDIX C I RULES GLOSSARY
you roll extra dice for the attack's damage a1p i:1st
the target. Roll all of the attack's damage die·' L vice
and add them together. Then add any relevant modifiers. See also chapter 1 ("Damage and Healing·").
CUBE [AREA OF EFFECT]
A Cube is an area of effect that extends in straight
lines from a point of origin located anywhere on
a face of the Cube. The effect that creates a Cube
specifies its size, which is the length of each side.
A Cube's point of origin isn't included in the area
of effect unless its creator decides otherwise.
CURSES
Some game effects curse a creature or an object.
The effect that confers a curse defines what the
curse does. Curses can be removed by the Remove
Curse and Greater Restoration spells or other magic
that explicitly ends curses.
CYLINDER [A REA OF E FFECT]
A Cylinder is an area of effect that extends in
straight lines from a point of origin located at the
center of the circular top or bottom of the Cylinder.
The effect that creates a Cylinder specifies the radius of the Cylinder's base and the Cylinder's height.
A Cylinder's point of origin is included in the area
of effect.
D20 TEST
D20 Tests encompass the three main d20 rolls of
the game: ability checks, attack rolls, and saving
throws. If something in the game affects D20 Tests,
it affects all three of these rolls. The DM determines
whether a D20 Test is warranted in a given circumstance. See also chapter 1 ("D20 Tests").
D AMAGE
Damage represents harm that causes a creature or
an object to lose Hit Points.
DAMAGE ROLL
A damage roll is a die roll, adjusted by any applicable modifiers, that deals damage to a target. See also
chapter 1 ("Damage and Healing").
DAMAGE TH RESH OLD
A creature or an object that has a damage threshold has Immunity to all damage unless it takes an
amount of damage from a single attack or effect
equal to or greater than its d~mc1ge threshold, in
