# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 161/387

LEVEL 6: DARK ON E'S O wN L u cK
You can call on your fiendish patron to alter fate in
your favor. When you make an ability check or a
saving throw, you can use this feature to add ldl0
to your roll. You can do so after seeing the roll but
before any of the rail's effects occur.
You can use this feature a number of times equal
to your Charisma modifier (minimum of once), but
you can use it no more than once per roll. You regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.
L EVEL 10: FIENDISH RESILIENCE
Choose one damage type, other than Force, whenever you finish a Short or Long Rest. You have
Resistance to that damage type until you choose a
different one w ith this feature.
LEVEL 14: HURL THROUGH HELL
Once per turn when you hit a creature with an
attack roll, you can try to instantly transport the
target through the Lower Planes. The target must
succeed on a Charisma saving throw against your
spell save DC, or the target disappears and hurtles
through a nightmare landscape. The target takes
8dl0 Psychic damage if it isn't a Fiend, and it has
the Incapacitated condition until the end of your
next turn, when it returns to the space it previously
occupied or the nearest unoccupied space.
Once you use this feature, you can't use it again
until you finish a Long Rest unless you expend a
Pact Magic spell slot (no action required) to restore
your use of it.
GREAT OLD ONE PATRON
Unearth Forbidden Lore of Ineffable Beings
When you choose this subclass, you might bind
yourself to an unspeakable being from the Far
Realm or an elder god-a being such as Tharizdun,
the Chained God; Zargon, the Returner; Hadar, the
Dark Hunger; or Great Cthulhu. Or you might invoke several entities without yoking yourself to one.
The motives of these beings are incomprehensible,
and the Great Old One might be indifferent to your
existence. But the secrets you've learned nevertheless allow you to draw strange magic from it.
L EVEL 3: A WAKENED MIND
You can form a telepathic connection between your
mind and the mind of another. As a Bonus Action,
choose one creature you can see wit hin 30 feet of
yourself. You and the chosen creature can communicate telepathically with each other while the
two of you are within a number of , ,ilcs of each
other equal to your Charisma moJ1fa r (minimum
of 1 mile). To understand each ol:i er, :/· ;u each must
mentally use a language the othr:1· k1!c•w<;.
n
