# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 55/387

PATH OF THE WORLD TREE
Trace the Roots and Branches of the M ultiverse
Barbarians who follow the Path of the W orld Tree
connect with the cosmic tree Yggdrasil th rough
their Rage. This tree grows among the Outer Planes
connecting them to each other and the M aterial
'
Plane. These Barbarians draw on the tree's magic
for vitality and as a means of dimensional travel.
LEVEL 3: VITALITY OF THE TREE
Your Rage taps into the life force of the World Tree.
You gain the following benefits.
Vitality Surge. When you activate your Rage, you
gain a number of Temporary Hit Points equal to
your Barbarian level.
Life-Giving Force. At the start of each of your
turns while your Rage is active, you can choose
another creature within 10 feet of yourself to gain
Temporary Hit Points. To determine the number of
Temporary Hit Points, roll a number of d6s equal to
your Rage Damage bonus, and add them together.
If any of these Temporary Hit Points remain when
your Rage ends, they vanish.
LEVEL 6: BRANCHES OF THE TREE
Whenever a creature you can see starts its turn
within 30 feet of you while your Rage is active, you
can take a Reaction to summon spectral branches
of the World Tree around it. The target must succeed on a Strength saving throw (DC 8 plus your
Strength modifier and Proficiency Bonus) or be teleported to an unoccupied space you can see within 5
feet of yourself or in the nearest unoccupied space
you can see. After the target teleports, you can reduce its Speed to O until the end of the current turn.
LEVEL 10: BATTERING ROOTS
During your turn, your reach is 10 feet greater with
any Melee weapon that has the Heavy or Versatile
property, as tendrils of the World Tree extend from
you. When you hit with such a weapon on your
turn, you can activate the Push or Topple mastery
property in addition to a different mastery property
you're using with that weapon.
LEVEL 14: TRAVEL ALONG THE TREE
When you activate your Rage and as a Bonus Action
while your Rage is active, you can teleport up to 60
feet to an unoccupied space you can see.
In addition, once per Rage, you can increase the
range of that teleport to 150 feet. When you do so,
you can also bring up to six willing creatures who
are within 10 feet of you. Each cFeature teleports to
an unoccupied space of yom:i choice within 10 feet
of your destination space.
