# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 17/387

Amy: "So Strahd wrote this letter, pretending to be
the burgomaster, imploring us to come to Barovia
and rescue lreena Kolyana from a deadly affliction
... which is him? Why would he do that?"
Russell: "Why would he want us to come here?"
Maeve: "Clearly, he doesn't think we're a threat."
Amy: "Well, he hasn't met us yet!"
Jared: "He's toying with you. He delights in the destruction of all things good, like my dear sister."
Phillip: Gareth draws closer and compassionately
asks lsmark whether his sister has been bitten by
the vampire.
Jared: Please make a Charisma (Persuasion) check to
see how well he responds to your pastoral manner.
You have Advantage because he's Friendly.
Phillip: Oh, good thing. My first roll was a 7, but with
Advantage ... ugh, not much better. Well, 10 plus
5 is 15.
Jared: lsmark leans toward you, Gareth, with a suspicious glance at the other people in the tavern, like
he's worried they're eavesdropping. He whispers,
"The Devil Strahd desires to make lreena his latest
plaything. Twice he has visited her in the night,
using his devilry to secure an invitation into the
house-for he can't enter where he isn't invited.
Twice he has bitten her, yet she clings to life. But I
fear she won't survive another visit!"
Russell: "All right, lsmark. You bought us drinks
and told us about the Devil Strahd and your sister.
How can we help?"
dl
r.HAPT11111 I PLAYING THE GAME
Jared: "You are too kind! First, I need your help
transporting lreena to the town ofVallaki."
Maeve: "Where's Vallaki?"
Jared: "It lies to the northwest, in the heart of the
valley. As the raven Aies, it is less than ten miles,
but the road winds among the hills and woods,
and the journey takes at least five hours at speed."
Russell: "And why there?"
Jared: "The town lies beyond the view of Castle
Ravenloft, so I hope it's beyond Strahd's spies.
And I have heard that Vallaki is well defended, with
a wooden palisade and iron gates."
Russell: "As if such defenses would stop a vampire."
Jared: "Indeed. But if moving her there can keep him
away from her for even a few days, we have time
for the second part of our task."
Russell: "A part where you help us?"
Jared: "Yes, when I help you face the vampire!"
f.),,.;;;;;.======;;;;;;;;;;;;;;=~
Influencing NPCs. Gareth takes the Influence
action (see the rules glossary), which characters can take to influence an NPC. It's easier
to influence an N PC who's already disposed
to help you, as lsmark is here. lsmark's
Friendly attitude gives Phillip Advantage on
the roll. In this case, Advantage made the
difference between success and failure.
0
