# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 42/387

BONUS FcATS AT LEVEL 20
A DM can use feats as a form of advancement
after characters reach level 20 to provide greater
power to characters who have no more levels to
gain. With this approach, each character gains
one feat of their choice for every 30,000 XP the
character earns above 355,000 XP. Epic Boon
feats are especially appropriate for these bonus
feats, but a player can choose any feat for which
their level 20 character qualifies.
TIERS OF PLAY
With each new level, characters acquire new capabilities that equip them to handle greater challenges. As characters advance in level, the tone of
the game also changes, and the stakes of the campaign get higher. It's helpful to think of a character's
(and a campaign's) arc in terms of four tiers of play,
describing the journey from a level 1 character just
beginning an adventuring career to the epic heights
of level 20. These tiers don't have any rules associated with them; they point to the fact that the play
experience evolves as characters gain levels.
TIER 1 (LEVELS 1-4)
In tier 1, characters are apprentice adventurers,
though they are already set apart from the broader
populace by virtue of their extraordinary abilities.
They learn their starting class features and choose
a subclass. The threats they face usually pose a danger to local farmsteads or villages.
TIER 2 (LEVELS 5-10)
In tier 2, characters are full-fledged adventurers.
Spellcasters gain iconic spells such as Fireball, Lightning Bolt, and Raise Dead. Most weapon-focused
classes gain the ability to make multiple attacks
in a round. The characters now face dangers that
threaten cities and kingdoms.
STARTING EQUIPMENT AT HIGHER LEVELS
Starting Level
2-4
5-10
11-16
17-20
Equipment and Money
Normal starting equipment
500 GP plus ldl0 x 25 GP plus
normal starting equipment
5,000 gp plus ldl0 x 250 GP plus
normal starting equipment
20,000 GP plus ldl0 x 250 GP plus
normal starting equipment
TIER 3 (LEVELS 11-16)
In tier 3, characters have reached a level of power
that makes them special among adventurers. At
level 11, many spellcasters learn reality-altering
spells. Other characters gain features that allow
them to make more attacks or to do more impressive things with those attacks. These adventurers
often confront threats to whole regions.
TIER 4 (LEVELS 17-20)
At tier 4, characters achieve the pinnacle of their
class features, becoming heroic archetypes. The
fate of the world or even the order of the multiverse
might hang in the balance during their adventures.
STARTING AT HIGHER LEVELS
Your DM might start your group's characters at a
level higher than 1. It is particularly recommended
to start at level 3 if your group is composed of seasoned D&D players.
CREATING YOUR CHARACTER
Creating a higher-level character uses the same
character-creation steps outlined in this chapter
and the rules for advancing beyond level 1 provided
in the "Level Advancement" section. You begin with
the minimum amount of XP required to reach your
starting level. For example, if the DM starts you at
level 10, you have 64,000 XP.
STARTING EQUIPMENT
The DM decides whether your character starts
with more than the standard equipment for a level
1 character, possibly even one or more magic items.
The Starting Equipment at Higher Levels table is a
guide for the DM.
Also, check with your DM about what equipment
is available for you to buy with your starting money.
For example, the firearms described in chapter 6 are
too expensive for level 1 characters, but they might
be available for purchase if your DM allows them.
Magic Items
l Common
l Common, l Uncommon
2 Common, 3 Uncommon, l Rare
2 Common, 4 Uncommon, 3 Rare, l Very Rare
:!-!APTER~ I C REAT IN G A C H A RACTER
4.3
