# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 112/387

:P ::~LA DIN S UBCLASSES
A Paladin subclass is a specialization that grants
you fea tu res at certain Paladin levels, as specified
in the subclass. This section presents the Oath of
Devotion, Oath of Glory, Oath of the Ancients, and
Oath of Vengeance subclasses.
Each of these subclasses represents a body of
oaths that a Paladin begins taking upon joining the
class. T he final oath, taken at level 3, is the culmination of a Paladin's training. Some characters with
this class don't consider themselves true Paladins
until they've reached level 3 and made this oath. For
others, the swearing of the oath is a formality, an
official stamp on what was already in their hearts.
OATH OF DEVOTION
Uphold the Ideals of Justice and Order
The Oath of Devotion binds Paladins to the ideals
of justice and order. These Paladins meet the archetype of the knight in shining armor. They hold
themselves to the highest standards of conduct,
and some- for better or worse- hold the rest of the
world to the same standards.
Many who swear this oath are devoted to gods
of law and good and use their gods' tenets as the
measure of personal devotion. Others hold angels as
their ideals and incorporate images of angelic wings
into their helmets or coats of arms.
These paladins share the following tenets:
Let your word be your promise.
Protect the weak and never fear to act.
Let your honorable deeds be an example.
LEVEL 3: OATH OF DEVOTION SPELLS
The magic of your oath ensures you always have
certain spells ready; when you reach a Paladin level
specified in the Oath of Devotion Spells table, you
thereafter always have the listed spells prepared.
OATH OF DEVOTION SPELLS
Paladin Level
Spells
3
Protection from Evil and Good,
Shield of Faith
5
Aid, Zone of Truth
9
Beacon of Hope, Dispel Magic
13
Freedom of Movement,
Guardian of Faith
17
Commune, Flame Strike
L EVE L 3: SACRED WEAPON
When you take the Attack action, you can expend
one use of your Channel Divinity to imbue one
Melec: weapon that you are holding with positive
enery,y. ·or 10 minutes or until you use this feature
