# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 240/387

A BR/\"tlER AF FEC TED BY THE
S r>ELL /l N IM/ll' E OBJECTS
I ANIMATED OBJECT
Huge or Smaller Construct, Unaligned
AC 15
HP 10 (Medium or smaller), 20 (Large), 40 (Huge)
Speed 30 ft.
MOD SAVE
STR 16 +3 +3
INT 3 - 4 - 4
MOD SAVE
MOD SAVE
DEX 10 +0 +0
CON 10 +0 +0
Wis 3 -4 -4
CHA 1 -5 -5
Immunities Poison, Psychic; Charmed, Exhaustion,
Frightened, Paralyzed, Poisoned
Senses Blindsight 30 ft., Passive Perception 6
Languages Understands the languages you know
CR None (XP O; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus)
ACTIONS
Slam. Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals your spell attack
modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: Force damage equal to ld4 + 3
(Medium or smaller), 2d6 + 3 + your spellcasting ability
modifier (Large), or 2dl2 + 3 + your spellcasting ability
modifier (Huge).
Each target animates, sprouts legs, and becomes
a Construct that uses the Animated Object stat
block; this creature is under your control until the
spell ends or until it is reduced to O Hit Points. Each
creature you make w ith this spell is an ally to you
and your allie . In combat, it shares your Initiative
count and tak•;s its turn immediately after yours.
Until the sp •II ends, you can take a Bonus Action
to mentall. • c, •n mand any creature you made with
this spell if the creature is within 500 feet of you (if
you control multiple creatures, you can command
any of them at the same time, issuing the same
command to each one). If you issue no commands,
the creature takes the Dodge action and moves only
to avoid harm. When the creature drops to O Hit
~oints, it reverts to its object form, and any remainmg damage carries over to that form.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The creature's
Slam damage increases by ld4 (Medium or smaller),
ld6 (Large), or ld12 (Huge) for each spell slot level
above 5.
ANTILIFE SHELL
Level 5 Abjuration (Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
An aura extends from you in a 10-foot Emanation
for the duration. The aura prevents creatures other
than Constructs and Undead from passing or reaching through it. An affected creature can cast spells
or make attacks with Ranged or Reach weapons
through the barrier.
If you move so that an affected creature is forced
to pass through the barrier, the spell ends.
ANTIMAGIC F IELD
Level 8 Abjuration (Cleric, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (iron filings)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
An aura of antimagic surrounds you in 10-foot Emanation. No one can cast spells, take Magic actions,
or create other magical effects inside the aura, and
those things can't target or otherwise affect anything inside it. Magical properties of magic items
don't work inside the aura or on anything inside it.
Areas of effect created by spells or other magic
can't extend into the aura, and no one can teleport
into or out of it or use planar travel there. Portals
close temporarily while in the aura.
Ongoing spells, except those cast by an Artifact or
a deity, are suppressed in the area. While an effect
is suppressed, it doesn't function, but the time it
spends suppressed counts against its duration.
Dispel Magic has no effect on the aura, and the auras created by different Antimagic Field spells don't
nullify each other.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
241
