# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 246/387

The hanli :~ an object t hat has AC 20 and Hit
Points equa i to you r Hit Point maximum. If it drops
too Hit Points, the spell ends. The hand doesn't occupy its space.
When you cast the spell and as a Bonus Action on
your later turns, you can move the hand up to 60
feet and then cause one of the following effects:
Clenched Fist. The hand strikes a target within 5
feet of it. Make a melee spell attack. On a hit, the
target takes Sd8 Force damage.
Forceful Hand. The hand attempts to push a Huge
or smaller creature within 5 feet of it. The target
must succeed on a Strength saving throw, or the
hand pushes the target up to 5 feet plus a number
of feet equal to five times your spellcasting ability
modifier. The hand moves with the target, remaining within 5 feet of it.
Grasping Hand. The hand attempts to grapple a
Huge or smaller creature within S feet of it. The
target must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw,
or the target has the Grappled condition, with an
escape DC equal to your spell save DC. While the
hand grapples the target, you can take a Bonus
Action to cause the hand to crush it, dealing Bludgeoning damage to the target equal to 4d6 plus
your spellcasting ability modifier.
Interposing Hand. The hand grants you Half Cover
against attacks and other effects that originate
from its space or that pass through it. In addition, its space counts as Difficult Terrain for your
enemies.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage of the
Clenched Fist increases by 2d8 and the damage of
the Grasping Hand increases by 2d6 for each spell
slot level above 5.
BLA DE B A RR IER
Level 6 Evocation (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You create a wall of whirling blades made of magical energy. The wall appears within range and lasts
for the duration. You make a straight wall up to 100
feet long, 20 feet high, and 5 feet thick, or a ringed
wall up to 60 feet in diameter, 20 feet high, and S
feet thick. The wall provides Three-Quarters Cover,
and its space is Difficult Terrain.
Any creatu • .• in the wall's space makes a Dexterity
saving throw. i:aki ng 6d10 Force damage on a failed
save or half ·"·• much damage on a successful one. A
creature n h e. . a kes that save if it enters the wall's
space or en.i·- ;: turn there. A creature makes that
save only o .
• per turn.
BLADE WARD
Abjuration Cantrip (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Whenever a creature makes an attack roll against
you before the spell ends, the attacker subtracts ld4
from the attack roll.
BLESS
Level 1 Enchantment (Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a Holy Symbol worth S+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You bless up to three creatures within range.
Whenever a target makes an attack roll or a saving
throw before the spell ends, the target adds ld4 to
the attack roll or save.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one
additional creature for each spell slot level above 1.
BLIGHT
Level 4 Necromancy (Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
A creature that you can see within range makes
a Constitution saving throw, taking 8d8 Necrotic
damage on a failed save or half as much damage on
a successful one. A Plant creature automatically
fails the save.
Alternatively, target a nonmagical plant that isn't
a creature, such as a tree or shrub. It doesn't make a
save; it simply withers and dies.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage increases by ld8 for each spell slot level above 4.
BLINDING S MITE
Level 3 Evocation (Paladin)
Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immediately after hitting a creature with a Melee weapon or
an Unarmed Strike
Range: Self
Component: V
Duration: l minute
The target hit by the strike takes an extra 3d8 Radiant damage from the attack, and the target has the
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
247
