# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 128/387

,..
....
0
-·
,=,
CoRE R OG UE T RA IT S
Primary Ability
Dexterity
Hit Point Die
D8 per Rogue level
'
Saving Throw
Dexterity and Intelligence
Proficiencies
skill Proficiencies
Choose 4: Acrobatics, Athletics, Deception, Insight,
Intimidation, Investigation,
Perception, Persuasion,
Sleight of Hand, or Stealth
Weapon Proficiencies Simple weapons and Martial weapons that have the
Finesse or Light property
Tool Proficiencies
Armor Training
Starting Equipment
Thieves' Tools
Light armor
Choose A or B: (A) Leather
Armor, 2 Daggers, Shortsword, Shortbow, 20 Arrows,
Quiver, Thieves' Tools, Burglar's Pack, and 8 GP; or (B)
100 GP
OGU ES RELY ON CUNNING, STEALTH, AND
their foes' vulnerabilities to get the upper
hand in any situation. They have a knack for
finding the solution to just about any problem. A
few even learn magical tricks to supplement their
other abilities. Many Rogues focus on stealth and
deception, while others refine skills that help them
in a dungeon environment, such as climbing, finding
and disarming traps, and opening locks.
In combat, Rogues prioritize subtle strikes over
brute strength. They would rather make one precise
strike than wear an opponent down with a barrage
of blows.
Some Rogues began their careers as criminals,
while others used their cunning to fight crime.
Whatever a Rogue's relation to the law, no common
criminal or officer of the law can match the subtle
brilliance of the greatest Rogues.
BECOMING A ROGUE ...
As A L EV EL 1 CHARACTER
Gain all the traits in the Core Rogue Traits table.
Gain the Rogue's level 1 features, which are listed
in the Rogue Features table.
As A MULTICLASS CHARACTER
• Gain the following traits from the Core Rogue
Traits table: Hit Point Die, proficiency in one skill
of your choice from the Rogue's skill list, proficiency with Thieves' Tools, and training with
Light armor.
• Gain the Rogue's level 1 features, which are listed
in the Rogue Features table.
ROGUE CLASS FEATURES
As a Rogue, you gain the following class features
when you reach the specified Rogue levels. These
features are listed in the Rogue Features table.
LEVEL l: EXPERTISE
You gain Expertise in two of your skill proficiencies
of your choice. Sleight of Hand and Stealth are rec-
1
om mended if you have proficiency in them.
At Rogue level 6, you gain Expertise in two more
of your skill proficiencies of your choice.
LEVEL l: SNEAK ATTACK
You know how to strike subtly and exploit a foe's
distraction. Once per turn, you can deal an extra
ld6 damage to one creature you hit with an attack
roll if you have Advantage on the roll and the attack
uses a Finesse or a Ranged weapon. The extra damage's type is the same as the weapon's type.
You don't need Advantage on the attack roll if at
least one of your allies is within 5 feet of the target,
the ally doesn't have the Incapacitated condition,
and you don't have Disadvantage on the attack roll.
The extra damage increases as you gain Rogue
levels, as shown in the Sneak Attack column of the
Rogue Features table.
LEVEL l: THIEVES' CANT
You picked up various languages in the communities where you plied your roguish talents. You
know Thieves' Cant and one other language of your
choice, which you choose from the language tables
in chapter 2.
LEVEL l: WEAPON MASTERY
Your training with weapons allows you to use the
mastery properties of two kinds of weapons of your
choice with which you have proficiency, such as
Daggers and Shortbows.
Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can change
the kinds of weapons you chose. For example, you
could switch to using the mastery properties of
Scimitars and Shortswords.
I
