# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 166/387

EXPAND IN G AND REPLACING A SPELLBOOK
The spel ls you add to you r spellbook as you gain
levels reAect your ongoi ng magical research, but
you m ight find other spells during your adventures that you can add to the book. You could discover a Wizard spell on a Spe/f Scro/f, for example,
and then copy it into your spellbook.
Copying a Spell into the Book. When you find
a level 1+ W izard spell, you can copy it into your
spell book if it 's of a level you can prepare and
if you have time to copy it. For each level of the
spell, the transcription takes 2 hours and costs 50
GP. Afterward you can prepare the spell like the
other spells in your spellbook.
Copying the Book. You can copy a spell from
you r spell book into another book. This is like
copying a new spell into your spellbook but faster,
since you already know how to cast the spell. You
need spend only 1 hour and 10 GP for each level
of the copied spell.
If you lose your spell book, you can use the same
procedu re to transcribe the Wizard spells that
you have prepared into a new spellbook. Filling
out the remainder of the new book requires you
to find new spells to do so. For this reason, many
wizards keep a backup spellbook.
LEVEL 3: WIZARD S UBCLASS
You gain a Wizard subclass of your choice. The Abjurer, Diviner, Evoker, and Illusionist subclasses are
detailed after this class's description. A subclass is
a specialization that grants you features at certain
Wizard levels. For the rest of your career, you gain
each of your subclass's features that are of your
Wizard level or lower.
LEVEL 4: ABILITY S CORE IMPROVEMENT
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see
chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which
you qualify. You gain this feature again at Wizard
levels 8, 12, and 16.
L EVEL 5: MEMORIZ E S PELL
Whenever you finish a Short Rest, you can study
your spellbook and replace one of the level 1+ Wizard spells you have prepared for your Spellcasting
feature with another level 1+ spell from the book.
LEVEL 18: S PE LL MASTERY
You have achieved such mastery over certain spells
that you can cast them at will. Choose a level 1 and
a level 2 sp ._.!I in your spellbook that have a casting
time of an ,1ction. You always have those spells prepared, and ye I can cast them at their lowest level
without e •pnnding a spell slot. To cast either spell at
a higher le •\!;, :vou must expend a spell slot.
Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can study
your spell book and replace one of those spells with
an eligible spell of the same level from the book.
L EVEL 19: EPIC BOON
You gain an Epic Boon feat (see chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which you qualify.
Boon of Spell Recall is recommended.
LEVEL 20: SIGNATURE SPE LLS
Choose two level 3 spells in your spellbook as your
signature spells. You always have these spells prepared, and you can cast each of them once at level 3
without expending a spell slot. When you do so, you
can't cast them in this way again until you finish a
Short or Long Rest. To cast either spell at a higher
level, you must expend a spell slot.
CH APTER 3 I CHAR ACTER CLASSES
167
