# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 104/387

You can use these benefits a total number oftimes
equal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of once).
You regain all expended uses when you finish a
Long Rest.
LEVEL 17: HAND OF ULTIMATE MERCY
Your mastery of life energy opens the door to the
ultimate mercy. As a Magic action, you can touch
the corpse of a creature that died within the past 24
hours and expend 5 Focus Points. The creature then
returns to life with a number of Hit Points equal
to 4dl0 plus your Wisdom modifier. If the creature
died with any of the following conditions, the creature revives with the conditions removed: Blinded,
Deafened, Paralyzed, Poisoned, and Stunned.
Once you use this feature, you can't use it again
until you finish a Long Rest.
WARRIOR OF SHADOW
Harness Shadow Power for Stealth and Subterfuge
Warriors of Shadow practice stealth and subterfuge, harnessing the power of the Shadowfell. They
are at home in darkness, able to draw gloom around
themselves to hide, leap from shadow to shadow,
and take on a wraithlike form.
LEVEL 3: SHADOW ARTS
You have learned to draw on the power of the
Shadowfell, gaining the following benefits.
Darkness. You can expend 1 Focus Point to cast
the Darkness spell without spell components. You
can see within the spell's area when you cast it with
this feature. While the spell persists, you can move
its area of Darkness to a space within 60 feet of
yourself at the start of each of your turns.
Darkvision. You gain Darkvision with a range of
60 feet. If you already have Darkvision, its range
increases by 60 feet.
Shadowy Figments. You know the Minor Illusion
spell. Wisdom is your spellcasting ability for it.
LEVEL 6: S H ADOW STEP
While entirely within Dim Light or Darkness, you
can use a Bonus Action to teleport up to 60 feet to
an unoccupied space you can see that is also in Dim
Light or Darkness. You then have Advantage on the
next melee attack you make before the end of the
current turn.
LEVEL 11: IMPROVED S HADOW STEP
You can draw on your Shadowfell connection to
empower your teleportation. When you use your
Shadow Step, you can expend 1 Focus Point to remove the requirement that you must start and end
in Dim Light or Darkness for that use of the feature.
As pal't of this Bonus Action, you can make an Unarmed Strike immediately after you teleport.
LEVEL 17: CLOAK OF SHADOWS
As a Magic action while entirely within Dim Light
or Darkness, you can expend 3 Focus Points to
shroud yourself with shadows for 1 minute, until
you have the Incapacitated condition, or until you
end your turn in Bright Light. While shrouded by
these shadows, you gain the following benefits.
Invisibility. You have the Invisible condition.
Partially Incorporeal. You can move through occupied spaces as if they were Difficult Terrain. If you
end your turn in such a space, you are shunted to
the last unoccupied space you were in.
Shadow Flurry. You can use your Flurry of Blows
without expending any Focus Points.
