# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 266/387

r,
cloud for rain, falling snowflakes for snow, and so
on. This effect persists for 1 round.
Bloom. You instantly make a flower blossom, a
seed pod open, or a leaf bud bloom.
Sensory Effect. You create a harmless sensory effect, such as falling leaves, spectral dancing fairies,
a gentle breeze, the sound of an animal, or the faint
odor of skunk. The effect must fit in a 5-foot Cube.
Fire Play. You light or snuff out a candle, a torch,
or a campfire.
EARTHQUAKE
Level 8 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 500 feet
Components: V, S, M (a fractured rock)
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
Choose a point on the ground that you can see
within range. For the duration, an intense tremor
rips through the ground in a 100-foot-radius circle
centered on that point. The ground there is Difficult
Terrain.
When you cast this spell and at the end of each of
your turns for the duration, each creature on the
ground in the area makes a Dexterity saving throw.
On a failed save, a creature has the Prone condition,
and its Concentration is broken.
You can also cause the effects below.
Fissures. A total of ld6 fissures open in the spell's
area at the end of the turn you cast it. You choose
the fissures' locations, which can't be under structures. Each fissure is ld10 x 10 feet deep and 10 feet
wide, and it extends from one edge of the spell's
area to another edge. A creature in the same space
as a fissure must succeed on a Dexterity saving
throw or fall in. A creature that successfully saves
moves with the fissure's edge as it opens.
Structures, The tremor deals SO Bludgeoning
damage to any structure in contact with the ground
in the arc.i ~-::-1 n you cast the spell and at the end of
each of yow • urns until the spell ends. If a structure
drops to U "/-- 1 • ~ >oints, it collapses.
A creature within a distance from a collapsing
structure equal to half the structure's height makes
a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 12d6 Bludgeoning damage, has the Prone
condition, and is buried in the rubble, requiring a
DC 20 Strength (Athletics) check as an action to
escape. On a successful save, the creature takes half
as much damage only.
ELDRITCH BLAST
Evocation Cantrip (Warlock)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You hurl a beam of crackling energy. Make a ranged
spell attack against one creature or object in range.
On a hit, the target takes ldlO Force damage.
Cantrip Upgrade. The spell creates two beams at
level 5, three beams at level 11, and four beams at
level 17. You can direct the beams at the same target
or at different ones. Make a separate attack roll for
each beam.
ELEMENTALISM
Transmutation Cantrip (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You exert control over the elements, creating one of
the following effects within range.
Beckon Air. You create a breeze strong enough to
ripple cloth, stir dust, rustle leaves, and close open
doors and shutters, all in a 5-foot Cube. Doors and
shutters being held open by someone or something
aren't affected.
Beckon Earth. You create a thin shroud of dust or
sand that covers surfaces in a 5-foot-square area, or
you cause a single word to appear in your handwriting in a patch of dirt or sand.
Beckon Fire. You create a thin cloud of harmless
embers and colored, scented smoke in a 5-foot Cube.
You choose the color and scent, and the embers can
light candles, torches, or lamps in that area. The
smoke's scent lingers for 1 minute.
Beckon Water. You create a spray of cool mist that
lightly dampens creatures and objects in a 5-foot
Cube. Alternatively, you create 1 cup of clean water
either in an open container or on a surface, and the
water evaporates in 1 minute.
Sculpt Element. You cause dirt, sand, fire, smoke,
mist, or water that can fit in a 1-foot Cube to assume
a crude shape (such as that of a creature) for 1 hour.
CHA PTER 7 I SPELLS
267
