# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 243/387

A target's astral form can travel through the Astral Plane. The moment an astral form leaves that
plane, the target's body and possessions travel along
the silver cord, causing the target to re-enter its
body on the new plane.
Any damage or other effects that apply to an astral form have no effect on the target's body and
vice versa. If a target's body or astral form drops to
0 Hit Points, the spell ends for that target. The spell
ends for all the targets if you take a Magic action to
dismiss it.
When the spell ends for a target who isn't dead,
the target reappears in its body and exits the state
of suspended animation.
AUGURY
Level 2 Divination (Cleric, Druid, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (specially marked sticks, bones,
cards, or other divinatory tokens worth 25+ GP)
Duration: Instantaneous
You receive an omen from an otherworldly entity
about the results of a course of action that you
plan to take within the next 30 minutes. The DM
chooses the omen from the Omens table.
OMENS
Omen
For Results That Will Be ...
Weal
Good
Woe
Bad
Weal and woe
Good and bad
Indifference
Neither good nor bad
The spell doesn't account for circumstances, such as
other spells, that might change the results.
If you cast the spell more than once before finishing a Long Rest, there is a cumulative 25 percent
chance for each casting after the first that you get
no answer.
AURA OF LIFE
Level 4 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
An aura radiates from you in a 3O-foot Emanation
for the duration. While in the aura, you and your
allies have Resistance to Necrotic damage, and your
Hit Point maximums can't be reduced. If an ally
with O Hit Points starts its turn in the aura, that
ally regains 1 Hit Point.
~44-
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
AURA OF PURITY
Level 4 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
An aura radiates from you in a 3O-foot Emanation
for the duration. While in the aura, you and your
allies have Resistance to Poison damage and Advantage on saving throws to avoid or end effects that
include the Blinded, Charmed, Deafened, Frightened, Paralyzed, Poisoned, or Stunned condition.
AURA OF VITALITY
Level 3 Abjuration (Cleric, Druid, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
An aura radiates from you in a 3O-foot Emanation
for the duration. When you create the aura and at
the start of each of your turns while it persists, you
can restore 2d6 Hit Points to one creature in it.
AWAKEN
Level 5 Transmutation (Bard, Druid)
Casting Time: 8 hours
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (an agate worth 1,000+ GP,
which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
You spend the casting time tracing magical pathways within a precious gemstone, and then touch
the target. The target must be either a Beast or
Plant creature with an Intelligence of 3 or less or a
natural plant that isn't a creature. The target gains
an Intelligence of 10 and the ability to speak one
language you know. If the target is a natural plant,
it becomes a Plant creature and gains the ability
to move its limbs, roots, vines, creepers, and so
forth, and it gains senses similar to a human's. The
DM chooses statistics appropriate for the awakened Plant, such as the statistics for the Awakened
Shrub or Awakened Tree in the Monster Manual.
The awakened target has the Charmed condition
for 30 days or until you or your allies deal damage
to it. When that condition ends, t:1e awakened creature chooses its attitude toward you.
