# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 275/387

FLY
Level 3 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (a feather)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You touch a willing creature. For the duration, the
target gains a Fly Speed of 60 feet and can hover.
When the spell ends, the target falls if it is still aloft
unless it can stop the fall.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one
additional creature for each spell slot level above 3.
FOG CLOUD
Level 1 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to l hour
You create a 20-foot-radius Sphere of fog centered
on a point within range. The Sphere is Heavily
Obscured. It lasts for the duration or until a strong
wind {such as one created by Gust of Wind) disperses it.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The fog's radius
increases by 20 feet for each spell slot level above 1.
FORBIDDANCE
Level 6 Abjuration (Cleric)
Casting Time: l O minutes or Ritual
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (ruby dust worth 1,000+ GP)
Duration: l day
You create a ward against magical travel that protects up to 40,000 square feet of floor space to a
height of 30 feet above the floor. For the duration,
creatures can't teleport into the area or use portals,
such as those created by the Gate spell, to enter the
area. The spell proofs the area against planar travel,
and therefore prevents creatures from accessing the
area by way of the Astral Plane, the Ethereal Plane,
the Feywild, the Shadowfell, or the Plane Shift spell.
In addition, the spell damages types of creatures
that you choose when you cast it. Choose one or
more of the following: Aberrations, Celestials, Elementals, Fey, Fiends, and Undead. When a creature
of a chosen type enters the spell's area for the first
time on a turn or ends its turn there, the creature
takes 5d10 Radiant or Necrotic damage (your
choice when you cast this spell).
276
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
You can designate a password w h ~~1 1 y·ou cast the
spell. A creature that speaks the pas. word as it enters the area takes no damage from t he spell.
The spell's area can't overlap w ith the area of
another Forbiddance spell. If you cast Forbiddance
every day for 30 days in the same location, the spell
lasts until it is dispelled, and the Material components are consumed on the last casting.
FORCECAGE
Level 7 Evocation (Bard, Warlocl<, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: l 00 feet
Components: V, S, M (ruby dust worth l ,500+ GP,
which the spell consumes)
Duration: Concentration, up to l hour
An immobile, Invisible, Cube-shaped prison composed of magical force springs into existence
around an area you choose within range. The prison
can be a cage or a solid box, as you choose.
A prison in the shape of a cage can be up to 20
feet on a side and is made from 1/2-inch diameter
bars spaced 1/2 inch apart. A prison in the shape
of a box can be up to 10 feet on a side, creating a
solid barrier that prevents any matter from passing
through it and blocking any spells cast into or out
from the area.
When you cast the spell, any creature that is completely inside the cage's area is trapped. Creatures
only partially within the area, or those too large to
fit inside it, are pushed away from the center of the
area until they are completely outside it.
A creature inside the cage can't leave it by nonmagical means. If the creature tries to use teleportation or interplanar travel to leave, it must first make
a Charisma saving throw. On a successful save, the
creature can use that magic to exit the cage. On a
failed save, the creature doesn't exit the cage and
wastes the spell or effect. The cage also extends into
the Ethereal Plane, blocking ethereal travel.
This spell can't be dispelled by Dispel Magic.
F ORESIGHT
Level 9 Divination (Bard, Druid, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: l minute
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a hummingbird feather)
Duration: 8 hours
You touch a willing creature and bestow a limited
ability to see into the immediate future. For the duration, the target has Adv~ntage on 020 Tests, and
other creatures have Dis.idvantage on attack rolls
against it. The spell ends early if you cast it again.
