# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 64/387

L EVEL 14 : L E A DING E VASION
When you are subjected to an effect that allows you
to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half
damage, you instead take no damage if you succeed
on the saving throw and only half damage if you
fail. If any creatures within 5 feet of you are making
the same Dexterity saving throw, you can share this
benefit with them for that save.
You can't use this feature if you have the Incapacitated condition.
COLLEGE OF GLAMOUR
Weave Beguiling Fey Magic
The College of Glamour traces its origins to the beguiling magic of the Feywild. Bards who study this
magic weave threads of beauty and terror into their
songs and stories, and the mightiest among them
can cloak themselves in otherworldly majesty. Their
performances stir up wistful longing for forgotten
innocence, evoke unconscious memories of longheld fears, and tug at the emotions of even the most
hard-hearted listeners.
LEVEL 3: BEGUILING MAGIC
You always have the Charm Person and Mirror Image
spells prepared.
In addition, immediately after you cast an Enchantment or Illusion spell using a spell slot, you
can cause a creature you can see within 60 feet of
yourself to make a Wisdom saving throw against
your spell save DC. On a failed save, the target has
the Charmed or Frightened condition (your choice)
for 1 minute. The target repeats the save at the end
of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a
success.
Once you use this benefit, you can't use it again
until you finish a Long Rest. You can also restore
your use of it by expending one use of your Bardic
Inspiration (no action required).
LEVEL 3: MANTLE OF INSPIRATION
You can weave fey magic into a song or dance to
fill others with vigor. As a Bonus Action, you can
expend a use of Bardic Inspiration, rolling a Bardic
Inspiration die. When you do so, choose a number
of other creatures within 60 feet of yourself, up to a
number equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum
of one creature). Each of those creatures gains a
number of Temporary Hit Points equal to two times
the number rolled on the Bardic Inspiration die,
and then each can use its Reaction to move up to its
Speed without provoking Opportunity Attacks.
LEVEL 6: MANTLE OF MAJESTY
You always have the Command spell prepared.
As a Bonus Action, you cast Command without
expending a spell slot, and you take on an unearthly
