# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 156/387

bond ends, you have proficiency with the weapon,
and you can use it as a Spellcasting Focus.
Whenever you attack with the bonded weapon,
you can use your Charisma modifier for the attack and damage rolls instead of using Strength or
Dexterity; and you can cause the weapon to deal
Necrotic, Psychic, or Radiant damage or its normal
damage type.
Your bond with the weapon ends if you use this
feature's Bonus Action again, if the weapon is more
than S feet away from you for 1 minute or more, or
if you die. A conjured weapon disappears when the
bond ends.
PACT OF THE CHAIN
You learn the Find Familiar spell and can cast it as a
Magic action without expending a spell slot.
When you cast the spell, you choose one of the
normal forms for your familiar or one of the following special forms: Imp, Pseudodragon, Quasit, Skeleton, Slaad Tadpole, Sphinx of Wonder,
Sprite, or Venomous Snake (see appendix B for the
familiar's stat block).
Additionally, when you take the Attack action,
you can forgo one of your own attacks to allow
your familiar to make one attack of its own with its
Reaction.
PACT OF THE TOME
Stitching together strands of shadow, you conjure
forth a book in your hand at the end of a Short or
Long Rest. This Book of Shadows (you determine its
appearance) contains eldritch magic that only you
can access, granting you the benefits below. The
book disappears if you conjure another book with
this feature or if you die.
Cantrips and Rituals. When the book appears,
choose three cantrips, and choose two level 1 spells
that have the Ritual tag. The spells can be from any
class's spell list, and they must be spells you don't
already have prepared. While the book is on your
person, you have the chosen spells prepared, and
they function as Warlock spells for you.
Spellcasting Focus. You can use the book as a
Spellcasting Focus.
REPELLING BLAST
Prerequisite: Level 2+ Warlock, a Warlock Cantrip That
Deals Damage via an Attack Roll
Choose one of your known Warlock cantrips that
requires an attack roll. When you hit a Large or
smaller creature with that cantrip, you can push the
creature up to 10 feet straight away from you.
Repeatable. You can gain this invocation more
than once. Ea h time you do so, choose a different
eligible cantrip.
"
•·
THIRSTING BLADE
Prerequisite: Level S+ Warlock, Pact of the Blade
Invocation
You gain the Extra Attack feature for your pact
weapon only. With that feature, you can attack
twice with the weapon instead of once when you
take the Attack action on your turn.
VISIONS OF DISTANT REALMS
Prerequisite: Level 9+ Warlock
You can cast Arcane Eye without expending a spell
slot.
WHISPERS OF THE GRAVE
Prerequisite: Level 7+ Warlock
You can cast Speak with Dead without expending a
spell slot.
WITCH SIGHT
Prerequisite: Level 15+ Warlock
You have Truesight with a range of 30 feet.
WARLOCK SPELL LIST
This section presents the Warlock spell list. The
spells are organized by spell level and then alphabetized, and each spell's school of magic is listed.
In the Special column, C means the spell requires
Concentration, R means it's a Ritual, and M means it
requires a specific Material component.
CANTRIPS (LEVEL O WARLOCK SPELLS)
Spell
School
Blade Ward
Abjuration
Chill Touch
Necromancy
Eldritch Blast
Evocation
Friends
Enchantment
Mage Hand
Conjuration
Mind Sliver
Enchantment
Minor Illusion
Illusion
Poison Spray
Necromancy
....
Special
C
C
