# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 26/387

FALLING OFF
If an effect is about to move your mount against its
will while you're on it, you must succeed on a DC 10
Dexterity saving throw or fall off, landing with the
Prone condition (see the rules glossary) in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the mount.
While mounted, you must make the same save if
you're knocked Prone or the mount is.
UNDERWATER COMBAT
A fight underwater follows these rules.
IMPEDED WEAPONS
When making a melee attack roll with a weapon
underwater, a creature that lacks a Swim Speed has
Disadvantage on the attack roll unless the weapon
deals Piercing damage.
A ranged attack roll with a weapon underwater
automatically misses a target beyond the weapon's
normal range, and the attack roll has Disadvantage
against a target within normal range.
FIRE RESISTANCE
Anything underwater has Resistance to Fire damage (explained in "Damage and Healing").
DAMAGE AND HEALING
Injury and death are frequent threats in D&D, as
detailed in the following rules.
HIT POINTS
Hit Points represent durability and the will to live.
Creatures with more Hit Points are more difficult
to kill. Your Hit Point maximum is the number of
Hit Points you have when uninjured. Your current
Hit Points can be any number from that maximum
down to 0, which is the lowest Hit Points can go.
Whenever you take damage, subtract it from your
Hit Points. Hit Point loss has no effect on your capabilities until you reach O Hit Points.
If you have half your Hit Points or fewer, you're
Bloodied, which has no game effect on its own but
which might trigger other game effects.
DAMAGE ROLLS
Each weapon, spell, and damaging monster ability
specifies the damage it deals. You roll the damage
dice, add any modifiers, and deal the damage to
your target. If there's a penalty to the damage, it's
possible to deal O damage but not negative damage.
When attacking with a weapon, you add your
ability modifier-the same modifier used for the attack roll-to the damage roll. A spell tells you which
dice to roll for damage and whether to add any
modifiers. Unless a rule says otherwise, you don't
add your ability modifier to a fixed damage amount
that doesn't use a roll, such as the damage of a
Blowgun. See chapter 6 for weapons' damage dice
and chapter 7 for spells' damage dice.
CRITICAL HITS
When you score a Critical Hit, you deal extra damage. Roll the attack's damage dice twice, add them
together, and add any relevant modifiers as normal. For example, if you score a Critical Hit with a
RESTINC
Adventurers can't spend every hour adventuring.
They need rest. Any creature can take hour-long
Short Rests in the midst of a day and an 8-hour
Long Rest to end it. Regaining Hit Points is one
of the main benefits of a rest. The rules glossary
provides the rules for Short and Long Rests.
C H A PTER I I PLAY ING TH E GA. M E
2i
