# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 302/387

If the glc ~,c str ikes a body of water, it freezes the
water to a depth of 6 inches ?ver an area 30 feet
square. Th is ice lasts for 1 mmute. Creatures that
were swimming on the surface of frozen water are
trapped in the ice and have the Restrained condition. A trapped creature can take an action to make
a Strength (Athletics) check against your spell save
DC to break free.
You can refrain from firing the globe after completing the spell's casting. If you do so, a globe about
the size of a sling bullet, cool to the touch, appears
in your hand. At any time, you or a creature you
give the globe to can throw the globe (to a range of
40 feet) or hurl it with a sling (to the sling's normal
range). It shatters on impact, with the same effect
as a normal casting of the spell. You can also set the
globe down without shattering it. After 1 minute, if
the globe hasn't already shattered, it explodes.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage increases by ld6 for each spell slot level above 6.
O TILUKE'S RESILIENT SPHERE
Level 4 Abjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a glass sphere)
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
A shimmering sphere encloses a Large or smaller
creature or object within range. An unwilling creature must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or
be enclosed for the duration.
Nothing-not physical objects, energy, or other
spell effects-can pass through the barrier, in or out,
though a creature in the sphere can breathe there.
The sphere is immune to all damage, and a creature
or object inside can't be damaged by attacks or effects originating from outside, nor can a creature
inside the sphere damage anything outside it.
The sphere is weightless and just large enough to
contain the creature or object inside. An enclosed
creature can take an action to push against the
sphere's walls and thus roll the sphere at up to half
the creature's Speed. Similarly, the globe can be
picked up and moved by other creatures.
A Disintegrate spell targeting the globe destroys it
without harming anything inside.
OTTO'S IRRESISTIBLE DANCE
Level 6 Enchantment (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
One creature that you can see within range must
make a Wisdom saving throw. On a successful save,
the target dances comically until the end of its next
turn, during which it must spend all its movement
to dance in place.
On a failed save, the target has the Charmed condition for the duration. While Charmed, the target
dances comically, must use all its movement to
dance in place, and has Disadvantage on Dexterity
saving throws and attack rolls, and other creatures
have Advantage on attack rolls against it. On each
of its turns, the target can take an action to collect
itself and repeat the save, ending the spell on itself
on a success.
PASSWALL
Level 5 Transmutation (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of sesame seeds)
Duration: l hour
A passage appears at a point that you can see on a
wooden, plaster, or stone surface (such as a wall,
ceiling, or floor) within range and lasts for the duration. You choose the opening's dimensions: up to 5
feet wide, 8 feet tall, and 20 feet deep. The passage
creates no instability in a structure surrounding it.
When the opening disappears, any creatures or
objects still in the passage created by the spell are
safely ejected to an unoccupied space nearest to the
surface on which you cast the spell.
PASS WITHOUT TRACE
Level 2 Abjuration (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (ashes from burned mistletoe)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You radiate a concealing aura in a 30-foot Emanation for the duration. While in the aura, you and
each creature you choose have a +10 bonus to Dexterity (Stealth) checks and leave no tracks.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
303
