# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 286/387

there must · !!cceed on a Dexterity saving throw or
take 2d6 Acid damage from otherworldly tentacles.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Cold or Acid
damage (your choice) increases by ld6 for each spell
slot level above 3.
H U NTER'S MARK
Level 1 Divination (Ranger)
casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to l hour
You magically mark one creature you can see
within range as your quarry. Until the spell ends,
you deal an extra ld6 Force damage to the target
whenever you hit it with an attack roll. You also
have Advantage on any Wisdom {Perception or Survival) check you make to find it.
If the target drops to O Hit Points before this spell
ends, you can take a Bonus Action to move the mark
to a new creature you can see within range.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Your Concentration can last longer with a spell slot of level 3- 4 (up
to 8 hours) or 5+ {up to 24 hours).
HYPNOTIC PATTERN
Level 3 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: S, M (a pinch of confetti)
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
You create a twisting pattern of colors in a 30-foot
Cube within range. The pattern appears for a moment and vanishes. Each creature in the area who
can see the pattern must succeed on a Wisdom
saving throw or have the Charmed condition for
the duration. While Charmed, the creature has the
Incapacitated condition and a Speed of 0.
The spell ends for an affected creature if it takes
any damage or if someone else uses an action to
shake the creature out of its stupor.
ICE KNIFE
Level 1 Conjuration (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: S, M (a drop of water or a piece of ice)
Duration: Instan taneous
You create a s rnrd of ice and fling it at one creature
within range. ! 1lake a ranged spell attack against
the target. C ·. ; hit, the target takes ldlO Piercing
damage. Hit , .. ~· :Tiiss, the shard then explodes. The
target and each creature within 5 feet of it must
succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take 2d6
Cold damage.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Cold damage
increases by ld6 for each spell slot level above 1.
ICE STORM
Level 4 Evocation (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 300 feet
Components: V, S, M (a mitten)
Duration: Instantaneous
Hail falls in a 20-foot-radius, 40-foot-high Cylinder
centered on a point within range. Each creature
in the Cylinder makes a Dexterity saving throw. A
creature takes 2d10 Bludgeoning damage and 4d6
Cold damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.
Hailstones turn ground in the Cylinder into Difficult Terrain until the end of your next turn.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Bludgeoning
damage increases by ldl0 for each spell slot level
above 4.
IDENTIFY
Level 1 Divination (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: l minute or Ritual
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (a pearl worth 100+ GP)
Duration: Instantaneous
You touch an object throughout the spell's casting.
If the object is a magic item or some other magical object, you learn its properties and how to use
them, whether it requires Attunement, and how
many charges it has, if any. You learn whether any
ongoing spells are affecting the item and what they
are. If the item was created by a spell, you learn that
spell's name.
If you instead touch a creature throughout the
casting, you learn which ongoing spells, if any, are
currently affecting it.
CHAPTER 7 I PELLS
287
