# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 100/387

C O RE MONK T RAITS
Primary Ability
f
Hit Point Die
Dexterity and Wisdom
D8 per Monk level
Strength and Dexterity
I
i !
Saving Throw
Proficiencies
Skill Proficiencies
Choose 2: Acrobatics, Athletics, History, Insight, Religion,
or Stealth
Weapon Proficiencies Simple weapons and Martial
weapons that have the Light
Tool Proficiencies
Armor Training
Starting Equipment
property
Choose one type of Artisan's
Tools or Musical Instrument
(see chapter 6)
None
Choose A or B: (A) Spear, 5
Daggers, Artisan's Tools or
Musical Instrument chosen for the tool proficiency
above, Explorer's Pack, and
ll GP; or (B) SO GP
ONKS USE RIGOROUS COMBAT TRAINING
/ f I l and mental discipline to align themselves
)_, \., "'- with the multiverse and focus their internal reservoirs of power. Different Monks conceptualize this power in various ways: as breath, energy,
life force, essence, or self, for example. Whether
channeled as a striking display of martial prowess
or as a subtler manifestation of defense and speed,
this power infuses all that a Monk does.
Monks focus their internal power to create extraordinary, even supernatural, effects. They channel uncanny speed and strength into their attacks,
with or without the use of weapons. In a Monk's
hands, even the most basic weapons can become sophisticated implements of combat mastery.
Many Monks find that a structured life of ascetic
withdrawal helps them cultivate the physical and
mental focus they need to harness their power.
Other Monks believe that immersing themselves in
the vibrant confusion of life helps to fuel their determination and discipline.
Monks generally view adventures as tests of their
physical and mental development. They are driven
by a desire to accomplish a greater mission than
merely slaying monsters and plundering treasure;
they strive to turn themselves into living weapons.
BECOMING A MONK ...
As A LEVEL 1 CHARACTER
• Gain all the traits in the Core Monk Traits table.
• Gain the Monk's level 1 features, which are listed
in the Monk Features table.
As A MULTICLASS CHARACTER
• Gain the Hit Point Die trait from the Core Monk
Traits table.
• Gain the Monk's level 1 features, which are listed
in the Monk Features table.
MONK CLASS FEATURES
' As a Monk, you gain the following class features
'
when you reach the specified Monk levels. These
features are listed in the Monk Features table.
LEVEL l : MARTIAL ARTS
Your practice of martial arts gives you mastery of
combat styles that use your Unarmed Strike and
Monk weapons, which are the following:
Simple Melee weapons
Martial Melee weapons that have the Light
property
You gain the following benefits while you are unarmed or wielding only Monk weapons and you
aren't wearing armor or wielding a Shield.
- I
Bonus Unarmed Strike. You can make an Unarmed
Strike as a Bonus Action.
Martial Arts Die. You can roll ld6 in place of the
normal damage of your Unarmed Strike or Monk
weapons. This die changes as you gain Monk levels,
as shown in the Martial Arts column of the Monk
Features table.
Dexterous Attacks. You can use your Dexterity
modifier instead of your Strength modifier for the
attack and damage rolls of your Unarmed Strikes
and Monk weapons. In addition, when you use the
Grapple or Shove option of your Unarmed Strike,
you can use your Dexterity modifier instead of your
Strength modifier to determine the save DC.
LEVEL l: UNARMORED DEFENSE
While you aren't wearing armor or wielding a
Shield, your base Armor Class equals 10 plus your
Dexterity and Wisdom modifiers.
LEVEL 2: MoNK's Focus
Your focus and martial training allow you to harness a well of extraordinary energy within yourself.
This energy is represented by Focus Points. Your
Monk level determines the number of points you
have, as shown in the Focus Points column of the
Monk Features table.
CHAPTE R 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES
JOT
