# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 320/387

melee spell att,!ck against each target. On a hit, a
target takes 6cll0 Force da mage.
You then teleport to an unoccupied space you can
see within 5 feet of one of the targets.
STINKING CLOU D
Level 3 Conjuration (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
casting Time: Action
Range: 90 feet
components: V, S, M (a rotten egg)
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
You create a 20-foot-radius Sphere of yellow, nauseating gas centered on a point within range. The
cloud is Heavily Obscured. The cloud lingers in the
air for the duration or until a strong wind (such as
the one created by Gust of Wind) disperses it.
Each creature that starts its turn in the Sphere
must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or
have the Poisoned condition until the end of the
current turn. While Poisoned in this way, the creature can't take an action or a Bonus Action.
STONE SHAPE
Level 4 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (soft clay)
Duration: Instantaneous
You touch a stone object of Medium size or smaller
or a section of stone no more than 5 feet in any dimension and form it into any shape you like. For example, you could shape a large rock into a weapon,
statue, or coffer, or you could make a small passage
through a wall that is 5 feet thick. You could also
shape a stone door or its frame to seal the door shut.
The object you create can have up to two hinges
and a latch, but finer mechanical detail isn't possible.
STO NESKIN
Level 4 Transmutation (Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer,
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (diamond dust worth 100+ GP,
which the spell consumes)
Duration: Concentration, up to l hour
Until the spell ends, one willing creature you touch
has Resistance to Bludgeoning, Piercing, and Slashing damage.
STORM OF VENGEANC E
Level 9 Conjuration (Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: l mile
Components: V, s
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
A churning storm cloud forms for the duration
cente_red on a point within range and spreadin; to
a rad1~s of 300 feet. Each creature under the cloud
wh~n ,t appears must succeed on a Constitution
savmg throw or take 2d6 Thunder damage and have
the Deafened condition for the duration.
At the st~rt of each of your later turns, the storm
produces different effects, as detailed below.
Turn 2. Acidic rain falls. Each creature and object
under the cloud takes 4d6 Acid damage.
Turn 3. You call six bolts of lightning from the
cloud to ~trike six different creatures or objects
beneath 1t. Each target makes a Dexterity saving
throw, taking 10d6 Lightning damage on a failed
save or half as much damage on a successful one.
Turn 4. Hailstones rain down. Each creature under the cloud takes 2d6 Bludgeoning damage.
Turns 5-10. Gusts and freezing rain assail the area
under the cloud. Each creature there takes ld6 Cold
damage. Until the spell ends, the area is Difficult
Terrain and Heavily Obscured, ranged attacks with
weapons are impossible there, and strong wind
blows through the area.
SUGGESTION
Level 2 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, M (a drop of honey)
Duration: Concentration, up to 8 hours
You suggest a course of activity-described in no
more than 25 words-to one creature you can see
within range that can hear and understand you. The
suggestion must sound achievable and not involve
anything that would obviously deal damage to the
target or it allies. For example, you could say, "Fetch
the key to the cult's treasure vault, and give the key
to me." Or you could say, "Stop fighting, leave this
library peacefully, and don't return."
The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving
throw or have the Charmed condition for the duration or until you or your allies deal damage to the
target. The Charmed target pursues the suggestion
to the best of its ability. The suggested activity can
continue for the entire duration, but if the suggested activity can be completed in a shorter time,
the spell ends for the target upon completing it.
C H APTE R 7 I SPELLS
32 1
