# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 171/387

WIZARD SUBCLASSES
A Wizard subclass is a specialization that grants
you features at certain Wizard levels, as specified
in the subclass. This section presents the Abjurer,
Diviner, Evoker, and Illusionist subclasses.
ABJURER
Shield Companions and Banish Foes
Your study of magic is focused on spells that block,
banish, or protect- ending harmful effects, banishing evil influences, and protecting the weak.
Abjurers are sought when baleful spirits require
exorcism, when locations must be guarded against
magical spying, and when portals to other planes of
existence must be closed. Adventuring parties value
Abjurers for the protection they provide against a
variety of hostile magic and other attacks.
LEVEL 3: ABJURATION SAVANT
Choose two Wizard spells from the Abjuration
school, each of which must be no higher than level
2, and add them to your spellbook for free.
In addition, whenever you gain access to a new
level of spell slots in this class, you can add one
Wizard spell from the Abjuration school to your
spellbook for free. The chosen spell must be of a
level for which you have spell slots.
LEVEL 3: ARCANE WARD
You can weave magic around yourself for protection. When you cast an Abjuration spell with a spell
slot, you can simultaneously use a strand of the
spell's magic to create a magical ward on yourself
that lasts until you finish a Long Rest. The ward has
a Hit Point maximum equal to twice your Wizard
level plus your Intelligence modifier. Whenever you
take damage, the ward takes the damage instead,
and if you have any Resistances or Vulnerabilities,
apply them before reducing the ward's Hit Points.
If the damage reduces the ward to O Hit Points, you
take any remaining damage. While the ward has
0 Hit Points, it can't absorb damage, but its magic
remains.
Whenever you cast an Abjuration spell with a
spell slot, the ward regains a number of Hit Points
equal to twice the level of the spell slot. Alternatively, as a Bonus Action, you can expend a spell
slot, and the ward regains a number of Hit Points
equal to twice the level of the spell slot expended.
Once you create the ward, you can't create it
again until you finish a Long Rest.
L EVEL 6: PROJECTED W ARD
When a creature that you can see within 30 feet of
yourself takes damage, you can take :; ~eaction to
cause your Arcane Ward to absorb that damage. If
this damage reduces the ward to O Hit Points, the
