# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 27/387

Dagger, roll 2d4 for the damage rather than ld4, and
add your relevant ability modifier. If the attack involves other damage dice, such as from the Rogue's
Sneak Attack feature, you also roll those dice twice.
SAVING THROWS AND DAMAGE
Damage dealt via saving throws uses these rules.
DAMAGE AGAINST MULTIPLE TARGETS
When you create a damaging effect that forces two
or more targets to make saving throws against it at
the same time, roll the damage once for all the targets. For example, when a wizard casts Fireball, the
spell's damage is rolled once for all creatures caught
in the blast.
HALF DAMAGE
Many saving throw effects deal half damage (round
down) to a target when the target succeeds on the
saving throw. The halved damage is equal to half
the damage that would be dealt on a failed save.
DAMAGE TYPES
Each instance of damage has a type, like Fire or
Slashing. Damage types are listed in the rules glossary and have no rules of their own, but other rules,
such as Resistance, rely on damage types.
RESISTANCE AND VULNERABILITY
Some creatures and objects have Resistance or
Vulnerability to certain damage types. If you have
Resistance to a damage type, damage of that type
is halved against you (round down). If you have
Vulnerability to a damage type, damage of that type
is doubled against you. For example, if you have
Resistance to Cold damage, such damage is halved
against you, and if you have Vulnerability to Fire
damage, such damage is doubled against you.
No STACKING
Multiple instances of Resistance or Vulnerability
that affect the same damage type count as only one
instance. For example, if you have Resistance to Necrotic damage as well as Resistance to all damage,
Necrotic damage is reduced by half against you.
ORDER OF APPLICATION
Modifiers to damage are applied in the following
order: adjustments such as bonuses, penalties, or
multipliers are applied first; Resistance is applied
second; and Vulnerability is applied third.
For example, a creature has Resistance to all
damage and Vulnerability to Fire damage, and it's
within a magical aura that reduces all damage by
5. If it takes 28 Fire damage, the damage is first
reduced by 5 (to 23), then halved for the creature's
Resistance (and rounded down to 11), then doubled
for its Vulnerability (to 22).
28
CHAPTER l I PLAYING THE GAME
IMMUNITY
Some creatures and objects have Immunity to certain damage types and conditions. Immunity to a
damage type means you don't take damage of that
type, and Immunity to a condition means you aren't
affected by it.
HEALING
Hit Points can be restored by magic, such as the
Cure Wounds spell or a Potion of Healing, or by a
Short or Long Rest (see the rules glossary).
When you receive healing, add the restored Hit
Points to your current Hit Points. Your Hit Points
can't exceed your Hit Point maximum, so any Hit
Points regained in excess of the maximum are lost.
For example, if you receive 8 Hit Points of healing
and have 14 Hit Points and a Hit Point maximum of
20, you regain 6 Hit Points, not 8.
DROPPING TO O HIT POINTS
When a creature drops to O Hit Points, it either dies
outright or falls unconscious, as explained below.
INSTANT DEATH
Here are the main ways a creature can die instantly.
Monster Death. A monster dies the instant it drops
to O Hit Points, although a Dungeon Master can ignore this rule for an individual monster and treat it
like a character.
Hit Point Maximum of 0. A creature dies if its Hit
Point maximum reaches 0. Certain effects drain life
energy, reducing a creature's Hit Point maximum.
Massive Damage. When damage reduces a character to O Hit Points and damage remains, the character dies if the remainder equals or exceeds their
Hit Point maximum. For example, if your character
has a Hit Point maximum of 12, currently has 6 Hit
Points, and takes 18 damage, the character drops to
0 Hit Points, but 12 damage remains. The character
then dies, since 12 equals their Hit Point maximum.
CHARACTER DEMISE
If your character dies, others might find a magical
way to revive your character, such as with the Raise
Dead spell. Or talk with the DM about making a new
character to join the group. The rules glossary has
more information on being dead.
f ALLING UNCONSCIOUS
If you reach O Hit Points and don't die instantly, you
have the Unconscious condition (see the rules glossary) until you regain any Hit Points, and you now
face making Death Saving Throws (see below).
DEATH SAVING THROWS
Whenever you start your turn with O Hit Points,
you must make a Death Saving Throw to determine
whether you creep closer to death or hang on to life.
