# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 225/387

HOLY SYMBOL (VARIES)
A Holy Symbol takes one of the forms in the Holy
Symbol table and is bejeweled ~r painted to channel
divine magic. A Cleric or Paladm can use a Holy
Symbol as a Spellcasting Focus.
The table indicates whether a Holy Symbol needs
to be held, worn, or borne on fabric (such as a tabard or banner) or a Shield.
HOLY SYMBOLS
Symbol
Amulet (worn or held)
Emblem (borne on fabric or a Shield)
Reliquary (held)
HOLY WATER (25 GP)
Weight Cost
1 lb. 5 GP
5 GP
2 lb. 5 GP
When you take the Attack action, you can replace
one of your attacks with throwing a flask of Holy
Water. Target one creature you can see within 20
feet of yourself. The target must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw (DC 8 plus your Dexterity modifier and Proficiency Bonus) or take 2d8 Radiant
damage if it is a Fiend or an Undead.
r -------------
HUNTING TRAP (5 GP)
As a Utilize action, you can set a Hunting Trap,
which is a sawtooth steel ring that snaps shut when
a creature steps on a pressure plate in the center.
The trap is affixed by a heavy chain to an immobile object, such as a tree or a spike driven into the
ground. A creature that steps on the plate must
succeed on a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw or take
ld4 Piercing damage and have its Speed reduced to
O until the start of its next turn. Thereafter, until
the creature breaks free of the trap, its movement
is limited by the length of the chain (typically 3
feet). A creature can use its action to make a DC
13 Strength (Athletics) check, freeing itself or another creature within its reach on a success. Each
failed check deals 1 Piercing damage to the trapped
creature.
---------..-.,.=-
INK (IO GP)
Ink comes in a 1-ounce bottle, which provides
enough ink to write about 500 pages.
INK PEN (2 CP)
Using Ink, an Ink Pen is used to write or draw.
226
CHAPTER 6 I EQUIPMENT
JuG (2 CP)
A Jug holds up to 1 gallon.
LADDER (1 SP)
A Ladder is 10 feet tall. You must climb to move up
or down it.
r
. -
- -
-
-
LAMP (5 SP)
A Lamp burns Oil as fuel to cast Bright Light in a
15-foot radius and Dim Light for an additional 30
feet.
LANTERN, BULLSEYE (IO GP)
A Bullseye Lantern burns Oil as fuel to cast Bright
Light in a 60-foot Cone and Dim Light for an additional 60 feet.
LANTERN, HOODED (5 GP)
A Hooded Lantern burns Oil as fuel to cast Bright
Light in a 30-foot radius and Dim Light for an additional 30 feet. As a Bonus Action, you can lower
the hood, reducing the light to Dim Light in a 5-foot
radius, or raise it again.
LOCK (10 GP)
A Lock comes with a key. Without the key, a creature can use Thieves' Tools to pick this Lock with a
successful DC 15 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check.
MAGNIFYING GLASS (100 GP)
A Magnifying Glass grants Advantage on any ability check made to appraise or inspect a highly detailed item. Lighting a fire with a Magnifying Glass
requires light as bright as sunlight to focus, tinder
to ignite, and about 5 minutes for the fire to ignite.
MANACLES (2 GP)
As a Utilize action, you can use Manacles to bind an
unwilling Small or Medium creature within 5 feet
of yourself that has the Grappled, Incapacitated,
or Restrained condition if you succeed on a DC 13
Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check. W hile bound, a
creature has Disadvantage on attack rolls, and the
creature is Restrained if the Manacles are attached
to a chain or hook that is fixed iu phce. Escaping
the Manacles requires a succes,.fol DC 20 Dexterity
(Sleight of Hand) check as an ?.ctic ·1. Bursting them
requires a successful DC 25 Stn;-·,rrth (Athletics)
check as an action.
