# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 6/387

CHAPTER 1
PI.,AYING THE GAME
•. _., MAGI NATION IS A KEY INGREDIENT OF
] J DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, a cooperative game
. ;
L.__ in which the characters that you roleplay embark on adventures together in fantasy worlds filled
with monsters and magic.
In D&D, the action takes place in the imaginations
of the players, and it's narrated by everyone together. Here's a glimpse at what that looks like:
Jared (as Dungeon Master): After your long journey,
Castle Ravenloft towers before you. Crumbling
towers of stone-perhaps abandoned guardhouses-loom over the approach. Beyond them,
you see a gaping chasm disappearing into deep
fog below. A lowered drawbridge spans the chasm,
its chains creaking in the wind. Stone gargoyles
stare down at you from the high walls, and a pale
light spills into the courtyard from the open castle
doors beyond.
Phillip (as Gareth): I examine the gargoyles. I have a
feeling they're not just statues!
Maeve (as Mirabella): I want to see how sturdy the
drawbridge is. Do I think we can cross it, or is it
going to collapse under our weight?
Jared: All right, one at a time. Phillip, Gareth's looking at the gargoyles?
Phillip: Yeah. Is there any hint they might be creatures and not just decorations?
Jared: Make an Intelligence check.
Phillip: Does my Investigation skill apply?
Jared: Sure!
Phillip (rolling a d20): Ugh. Seven.
Jared: They look like decorations to you. And Maeve,
Mirabella is examining the drawbridge?
The adventure continues from there, relying on
the DM's descriptions to set the scenes. Later in the
chapter, other examples of play focus on certain
aspects of D&D play: social interaction, exploration,
and combat.
RULES GLOSSARY
If you read a rules term in this book and want to
know its definition, consult the rules glossary,
which is appendix C. This chapter provides an
overview of how to play D&D and focuses on the
big picture. Many places in this chapter reference
that glossary.
PLAYER OR DM?
To play D&D, you need one person to be the Dungeon Master and other players (three to six are best)
to play adventurers. Which role is right for you?
BEING A PLAYER
If you want to be one of the protagonists in your
group's adventures, consider being a player. Here's
what players do:
Make a Character. Your character is your alter ego
in the fantasy world of the game. After you read
this chapter, use the rules in chapter 2 to create
your character.
Team Up. Your character joins the other players'
characters to form an adventuring party. These
adventurers are allies who face challenges and
fantastical situations together. Each character
brings distinctive capabilities, which ideally complement those of the other characters.
Venture Forth. Your character's group explores
locations and events presented by the DM. You
can respond to them in any way you can imagine,
guided by the rules in this book. Although the
DM controls all the monsters you encounter, the
DM isn't your adversary. The DM guides your
party's journey as your characters become more
powerful.
BEING THE DUNGEON MASTER
If you want to be the mastermind of the game, consider being the DM. Here's what DMs do:
Build Adventures. You prepare the adventures that
the players experience. In the Dungeon Master's
Guide, you'll find advice for how to create adventures and even whole worlds.
Guide the Story. You narrate much of the action
during play, describing locations and creatures
that the adventurers face. The players decide what
their characters do as they navigate hazards and
choose what to explore. Then you use a combination of imagination and the game's rules to determine the results of the adventurers' decisions.
Adjudicate the Rules. You oversee how the group
uses the game's rules, making sure the rules serve
the group's fun. You'll want to read the rest of this
chapter to understand those rules, and you'll find
the rules glossary essential.
C HAPTER I I PL A'I IN G THE G AM E
7
