# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 113/387

again, you add your Charisma modifier to att-::ink
rolls you make with that weapon (minimum b nus
of +1), and each time you hit with it, you cause it to
deal its normal damage type or Radiant damage.
The weapon also emits Bright Light in a 20-foot
radius and Dim Light 20 feet beyond that.
You can end this effect early (no action required).
This effect also ends if you aren't carrying the
weapon.
LEVEL 7: AURA OF DEVOTION
You and your allies have Immunity to the Charmed
condition while in your Aura of Protection. If a
Charmed ally enters the aura, that condition has no
effect on that ally while there.
LEVEL 15: SMITE OF PROTECTION
Your magical smite now radiates protective energy.
Whenever you cast Divine Smite, you and your allies
have Half Cover while in your Aura of Protection.
The aura has this benefit until the start of your next
turn.
LEVEL 20: HOLY NIMBUS
As a Bonus Action, you can imbue your Aura of
Protection with holy power, granting the benefits
below for 10 minutes or until you end them (no action required). Once you use this feature, you can't
use it again until you finish a Long Rest. You can
also restore your use of it by expending a level 5
spell slot (no action required).
Holy Ward. You have Advantage on any saving
throw you are forced to make by a Fiend or an
Undead.
Radiant Damage. Whenever an enemy starts its
turn in the aura, that creature takes Radiant damage equal to your Charisma modifier plus your Proficiency Bonus.
Sunlight. The aura is filled with Bright Light that
is sunlight.
OATH OF GLORY
Strive for the Heights of Heroism
Paladins who take the Oath of Glory believe they
and their companions are destined to achieve glory
through deeds of heroism. They train diligently and
encourage their companions, so they're all ready
when destiny calls.
These paladins share the following tenets:
Endeavor to be known by your deeds.
• Face hardships with courage.
• Inspire others to strive for glory.
L EVEL 3: I NSPI RI NG SMITE
Immediately after you cast Divine Smile ~,,ou can
expend one use of your Channel Divinit·~, and
