# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 78/387

~rimary Ability
H it Point Die
Saving Throw
Proficiencies
Skill Proficiencies
Weapon Proficiencies
Tool Proficiencies
Armor Training
Starting Equipment
Wisdom
D8 per Druid level
Intelligence and W isdom
Choose 2: Arcana , Animal
H andling, Insight, Medicine,
N ature, Perception, Religion ,
or Survival
Simple weapons
Herbalism Kit
Light armor and Sh ields
Choose A or 8: (A) Leather
Armor, Sh ield, Sickle, Druid ic
Focus (Quarterstaff), Explorer's Pack, Herbalism Kit, and
9 GP; or (B) SO GP
RUIDS BELONG TO ANCIENT ORDERS THAT
I J ) call on the forces of nature. Harnessing
_l:::::1/ the magic of animals, plants, and the four
elements, Druids heal, transform into animals, and
wield elemental destruction.
Revering nature above all, individual Druids gain
their magic from nature, a nature deity, or both,
and they typically unite with other Druids to perform rites that mark the passage of the seasons and
other natural cycles.
Druids are concerned with the delicate ecological
balance that sustains plant and animal life and with
the need for people to live in harmony with nature.
Druids often guard sacred sites or watch over regions of unspoiled nature, but when a signifi~ant
danger arises, Druids take a more active role as adventurers who combat the threat.
BECOMING A DRUID .. .
As A LEVEL 1 CHARACTER
Gain all the traits in the Core Druid Traits table.
Gain the Druid's level 1 features, which are listed
in the Druid Features table.
As A MULTICLASS CHARACTER
• Gain the following traits from the Core Druid
Traits table: Hit Point Die and training with Light
armor and Shields.
Gain the Druid's level 1 features, which are listed
in the Druid Features table. See the multiclassing
rules in chapter 2 to determine your available
spell slots.
DRUI D CLASS FEATURES
As a Druid, you gain the following class features
when you reach the specified Druid levels. These
features are listed in the Druid Features table.
LEVEL 1: SPELLCASTING
You have learned to cast spells through studying the
mystical forces of nature. See chapter 7 for the rules
on spellcasting. The information below details how
you use those rules with Druid spells, which appear
on the Druid spell list later in the class's description.
Cantrips. You know two cantrips of your choice
from the Druid spell list. Druidcraft and Produce
Flame are recommended.
Whenever you gain a Druid level, you can replace
one of your can trips with another cantrip of your
choice from the Druid spell list.
When you reach Druid levels 4 and 10, you learn
another can trip of your choice from the Druid spell
list, as shown in the Can trips column of the Druid
Features table.
Spell Slots. The Druid Features table shows how
many spell slots you have to cast your level l+ spells.
You regain all expended slots when you finish a
Long Rest.
Prepared Spells of Level 1+. You prepare the list of
level 1+ spells that are available for you to cast with
this feature. To start, choose four level 1 spells from
the Druid spell list. Animal Friendship, Cure Wounds,
Faerie Fire, and Thunderwave are recommended.
The number of spells on your list increases as you
gain Druid levels, as shown in the Prepared Spells
column of the Druid Features table. Whenever that
number increases, choose additional spells from the
Druid spell list until the number of spells on your
list matches the number on the table. The chosen
spells must be of a level for which you have spell
slots. For example, if you're a level 3 Druid, your list
of prepared spells can include six spells of levels 1
and 2 in any combination.
If another Druid feature gives you spells that
you always have prepared, those spells don't count
against the number of spells you can prepare with
this feature, but those spells otherwise count as
Druid spells for you.
Changing Your Prepared Spells. Whenever you
finish a Long Rest, you can change your list of prepared spells, replacing any of the spells with other
Druid spells for which you have spell slots.
Spellcasting Ability. Wisdom is your spellcasting
ability for your Druid spells.
Spellcasting Focus. You can use a Druidic Focus as
a Spellcasting Focus for your Druid spells.
CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES
