# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 289/387

Deafened conditions, and they can't cast spells with
a Verbal component.
. .
When the storm appears, each creatu:e m it
makes a Constitution saving throw, takmg 2dl0
Radiant damage and 2dl0 Thunder damage on a
failed save or half as much damage on a su~cessful
one. A creature also makes this save when it enters
the spell's area for the first time on a turn or ends
its turn there. A creature makes this save only once
per turn.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Radiant and
Thunder damage increase by ldlO for each spell slot
level above 5.
JUMP
.
Level J Transmutation (Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range:Touch
Component: V, S, M (a grasshopper's hind leg)
Duration: 1 minute
You touch a willing creature. Once on each of its
turns until the spell ends, that creature can jump up
to 30 feet by spending 10 feet of movement.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one
additional creature for each spell slot level above 1.
---- - - --- --
KNOCK
Level 2 Transmutation (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Choose an object that you can see within range. The
object can be a door, a box, a chest, a set of manacles, a padlock, or another object that contains a
mundane or magical means that prevents access.
A target that is held shut by a mundane lock or
that is stuck or barred becomes unlocked, unstuck,
or unbarred. If the object has multiple locks, only
one of them is unlocked.
If the target is held shut by Arcane Lock, that spell
is suppressed for 10 minutes, during which time the
target can be opened and closed.
When you cast the spell, a loud knock, audible up
to 300 feet away, emanates from the target.
2go
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
LEGEND LORE
Level 5 Divination (Bard, Cleric, W izard)
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (incense worth 250+ GP, which
the spell consumes, and fou r ivory strips worth SO+
GP each)
Duration: Instantaneous
Name or describe a famous person, place, or object.
The spell brings to your mind a brief summary of
the significant lore about that famous thing, as described by the DM.
The lore might consist of important details, amusing revelations, or even secret lore that has never
been widely known. The more information you
already know about the thing, the more precise and
detailed the information you receive is. That information is accurate but might be couched in figurative language or poetry, as determined by the DM.
If the famous thing you chose isn't actually famous, you hear sad musical notes played on a trombone, and the spell fails.
y-----
L EOMUND'S SECRET CH E ST
Level 4 Conjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (a chest, 3 feet by 2 feet by 2
feet, constructed from rare materials worth 5,000+
GP, and a Tiny replica of the chest made from the
same materials worth 50+ GP)
Duration: Until dispelled
You hide a chest and all its contents on the Ethereal
Plane. You must touch the chest and the miniature
replica that serve as Material components for the
spell. The chest can contain up to 12 cubic feet of
nonliving material (3 feet by 2 feet by 2 feet).
While the chest remains on the Ethereal Plane,
you can take a Magic action and touch the replica to
recall the chest. It appears in an unoccupied space
on the ground within 5 feet of you. You can send
the chest back to the Ethereal Plane by taking a
Magic action to touch the chest and the replica.
After 60 days, there is a cumulative 5 percent
chance at the end of each day that the spell ends.
The spell also ends if you cast this spell again or if
the Tiny replica chest is destroyed. If the spell ends
and the larger chest is on the Sthereal Plane, the
chest remains there for you C• i' .,,Jmeone else to find.
