# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 16/387

SOCIAL I NTERACTION EXAMPLE
In this scene, players engage in a social interaction
encounter. You and your group determine how
similar scenes play out in your adventures.
Four adventurers-Shreeve, Mirabella, Auro, and
Gareth-have traveled to the Blood on the Vine tavern
in the grim village of Barovia.
Jared (as OM): This tavern might have been finely
appointed once, but it has grown shoddy with the
passage of years. A blazing fire in the hearth barely
gives any warmth to the room. You see a man
behind the counter, methodically cleaning glasses.
Three older women huddle together at one table.
And a handsome young man sits by himself at
a corner table, sipping a glass of wine. He looks
up as you enter, but the other people ignore you.
"Welcome to Barovia," he says. He holds a coin
toward the bartender: "A pitcher for the visitors."
The glint of silver catches the server's attention.
Maeve (as Mirabella): "Thank you, friend. May we
know to whom we're indebted?"
Jared: "I am lsmark Kolyanovich, though around
here, I am often called lsmark the Lesser."
Russell (as Shreeve): "That's unfortunate."
Jared: "Indeed. I hope one day to live up to my father's example and rid myself of that title. And so,
my new friends, who are you?"
Amy (as Auro): "I'm Auro."
Russell: "Shreeve."
Phillip (as Gareth): "My name is Gareth."
Maeve (as Mirabella): "I'm called Mirabella. You said
your name was Kolyanovich. Are you related to
Kolyan lndirovich, the burgomaster of this town?"
Jared: He looks a little surprised. He says, "Kolyan
lndirovich is my esteemed father, yes."
Maeve: "Then he's the one who summoned us!" I
show him the letter that drew us here.
Phillip: I watch his reaction as he reads it.
I Jared: He reaches for the letter but pulls back before
T
touching it. "That seal-it's not my father's."
Gareth, make a Wisdom (Insight) check.
Phillip: Gareth got 18.
Jared: You notice that lsmark is trying to conceal his
terror. He's afraid to even touch the letter's seal.
Phillip: I ask him what's frightening him.
Russell: "Yeah, whose seal is it?"
Jared: "The Devil Strahd."
Amy: "Sounds like a pleasant fellow."
Jared: "No! He is the vampire lord of Castle Ravenloft and a plague to my sister. You must help her!"
Active Roleplaying. Notice throughout the
example how Russell and Amy actively roleplay their characters' behavior. In this active
approach, they speak with their characters'
voices, like an actor taking on a role. The
players might even echo their characters'
body language. They still need to describe
things that can't reasonably be acted out.
Descriptive Roleplaying. Notice how Phillip
describes his character's words and action.
Drawing on his mental image of his character, he says what his character does and
how the character does it. If this approach is
most comfortable for you, keep these things
in mind:
• Describe your character's emotions and
attitude.
• Focus on your character's intent and how
others might perceive it.
• Provide as much embellishment as you
feel comfortable with.
Don't worry about getting things exactly
right. Focus on what your character would
do, and describe what you see in your mind.
o~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;::;;;===~
Ability Checks. Phillip's character, Gareth,
makes a Wisdom (Insight) check to determine whether he reads lsmark's unspoken
cues. Wisdom is the ability that measures
perceptiveness and intuition. Insight reflects
a character's skill at reading other people's
moods and intentions. The OM set the DC
at 15, which Gareth beats. With a successful
Wisdom (Insight) check, Gareth gleans information that wasn't obvious, so it wasn't
part of the DM 's earlier narration. For more
information, see "Ability Scores" and "Proficiency" earlier in this chapter and the Search
action in the rules glossary.
