# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 244/387

BANE
Level 1 Enchan tment (Bard, Cleric, Warlock)
casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
components: V, S, M (a drop of blood)
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
Up to three creatures of your choice that you can
see within range must each make a Charisma saving
throw. Whenever a target that fails this save makes
an attack roll or a saving throw before the spell
ends, the target must subtract ld4 from the attack
roll or save.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one
additional creature for each spell slot level above 1.
BANISHING SMITE
Level 5 Conjuration (Paladin)
Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immediately after hitting a creature with a Melee weapon or
an Unarmed Strike
Range: Self
Component: V
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
The target hit by the attack roll takes an extra SdlO
Force damage from the attack. If the attack reduces
the target to 50 Hit Points or fewer, the target must
succeed on a Charisma saving throw or be transported to a harmless demiplane for the duration.
While there, the target has the Incapacitated condition. When the spell ends, the target reappears in
the space it left or in the nearest unoccupied space if
that space is occupied.
BANISHMENT
Level 4 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin, Sorcerer, Warlock,
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a pentacle)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
One creature that you can see within range must
succeed on a Charisma saving throw or be transported to a harmless demiplane for the duration.
While there, the target has the Incapacitated condition. When the spell ends, the target reappears in
the space it leA· or in the nearest unoccupied space if
that space is occupied.
If the target b a n Aberration, a Celestial, an Elemental, a Fey. or a Fiend, the target doesn't return
if the spell lasts for 1 minute. The target is instead
tra~sported to a random location on a plane (DM's
cho1~e) associated with its creature type.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one
additional creature for each spell slot level above 4.
BARKSKIN
Level 2 Transmutation (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range:Touch
Component: V, S, M (a handful of bark)
Duration: l hour
You touch a willing creature. Until the spell ends,
the target's skin assumes a bark-like appearance,
and the target has an Armor Class of 17 if its AC is
lower than that.
BEACON OF HOPE
Level 3 Abjuration (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
Choose any number of creatures within range. For
the duration, each target has Advantage on Wisdom saving throws and Death Saving Throws and
regains the maximum number of Hit Points possible
from any healing.
BEAST SENSE
Level 2 Divination (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range:Touch
Components: S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You touch a willing Beast. For the duration, you can
perceive through the Beast's senses as well as your
own. When perceiving through the Beast's senses,
you benefit from any special senses it has.
BEFUDDLEMENT
Level 8 Enchantment (Bard, Druid, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: l SO feet
Components: V, S, M (a key ring with no keys)
Duration: Instantaneous
You blast the mind of a creature that you can see
within range. The target makes an Intelligence saving throw.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
245
