# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 60/387

A BARD'S Ri:: P r-P. T()IF( E
Does your B:ud beat a drum while chanting the
deeds of ancient heroes? Strum a lute while
crooni ng romantic tunes? Perform arias of stirring power? Recite dramatic monologues from
classic tragedies? Use the rhythm of a folk dance
to coordinate the movement of allies in battle?
Compose naughty limericks?
When you play a Bard, consider the style of
artistic performance you favor, the moods you
might invoke, and the themes that inspire your
own creations. Are your poems inspired by moments of natural beauty, or are they brooding
reflections on loss? Do you prefer lofty hymns or
rowdy tavern songs? Are you drawn to laments
for the fallen or celebrations of joy? Do you dance
merry jigs or perform elaborate interpretive choreography? Do you focus on one style of performance or strive to master them all?
LEV EL 4: ABI LITY SCORE I M PROVEMENT
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see
chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which
you qualify. You gain this feature again at Bard levels 8, 12, and 16.
LEVEL 5: FONT OF INSPIRATION
You now regain all your expended uses of Bardic Inspiration when you finish a Short or Long Rest.
In addition, you can expend a spell slot (no action
required) to regain one expended use of Bardic
Inspiration.
LEVEL 7: CouNTERCHARM
You can use musical notes or words of power to disrupt mind-influencing effects. If you or a creature
within 30 feet of you fails a saving throw against an
effect that applies the Charmed or Frightened condition, you can take a Reaction to cause the save to
be rerolled, and the new roll has Advantage.
LEVEL 10: MAGICAL SECRETS
You've learned secrets from various magical traditions. Whenever you reach a Bard level (including
this level) and the Prepared Spells number in the
Bard Features table increases, you can choose any
of your new prepared spells from the Bard, Cleric,
Druid, and Wizard spell lists, and the chosen spells
count as Bard spells for you (see a class's section for
its spell list). In addition, whenever you replace a
spell prepared for this class, you can replace it with
a spell from those lists.
LEVEL 18: SUPERIOR INSPIRATION
When you roll Initiative, you regain expended uses
of Bardic Inspiration until you have two if you have
fewer than that.
LEVEL 19: EPIC BOON
You gain an Epic Boon feat (see chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which you qualify.
Boon of Spell Recall is recommended.
LEVEL 20: WORDS OF CREATION
You have mastered two of the Words of Creation:
the words of life and death. You therefore always
have the Power Word Heal and Power Word Kill spells
prepared. When you cast either spell, you can target
a second creature with it if that creature is within
10 feet of the first target.
CH A PT ER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES
61
