# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 335/387

TRUE RESURRECTION
Level 9 Necromancy (Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: l hour
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (diamonds worth 25,000+ GP,
which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
You touch a creature that has been dead for no
longer than 200 years and that died for any reason
except old age. The creature is revived with all its
Hit Points.
This spell closes all wounds, neutralizes any
poison, cures all magical contagions, and lifts any
curses affecting the creature when it died. The spell
replaces damaged or missing organs and limbs.
If the creature was Undead, it is restored to its
non-Undead form.
The spell can provide a new body if the original
no longer exists, in which case you must speak the
creature's name. The creature then appears in an
unoccupied space you choose within 10 feet of you.
TRUE SEEING
Level 6 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Sorcerer, Warlock,
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (mushroom powder worth 25+
GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: l hour
For the duration, the willing creature you touch has
Truesight with a range of 120 feet.
TRUE STRIKE
Divination Cantrip (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: S, M (a weapon with which you have
proficiency and that is worth l+ CP)
Duration: Instantaneous
Guided by a flash of magical insight, you make one
attack with the weapon used in the spell's casting.
The attack uses your spellcasting ability for the attack and damage rolls instead of using Strength or
Dexterity. If the attack deals damage, it can be Radiant damage or the weapon's normal damage type
(your choice).
Cantrip Upgrade. Whether you deal Radiant damage or the weapon's normal damage type, the attack
deals extra Radiant damage when you reach levels S
{ld6), 11 (2d6), and 17 (3d6).
l)l)h
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
TSUNAMI
Level 8 Conjuration (Druid)
Casting Time: l minute
Range: l mile
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 6 rounds
A wall of water springs into existence at a point you
choose within range. You can make the wall up to
300 feet long, 300 feet high, and SO feet thick. The
wall lasts for the duration.
When the wall appears, each creature in its area
makes a Strength saving throw, taking 6d10 Bludgeoning damage on a failed save or half as much
damage on a successful one.
At the start of each of your turns after the wall
appears, the wall, along with any creatures in it,
moves SO feet away from you. Any Huge or smaller
creature inside the wall or whose space the wall
enters when it moves must succeed on a Strength
saving throw or take Sdl0 Bludgeoning damage. A
creature can take this damage only once per round.
At the end of the turn, the wall's height is reduced
by SO feet, and the damage the wall deals on later
rounds is reduced by ldlO. When the wall reaches 0
feet in height, the spell ends.
A creature caught in the wall can move by swimming. Because of the wave's force, though, the creature must succeed on a Strength (Athletics) check
against your spell save DC to move at all. If it fails
the check, it can't move. A creature that moves out
of the wall falls to the ground.
UNSEEN SERVANT
Level 1 Conjuration (Bard, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bit of string and of wood)
Duration: l hour
This spell creates an Invisible, mindless, shapeless,
Medium force that performs simple tasks at your
command until the spell ends. The servant springs
into existence in an unoccupied space on the
ground within range. It has AC 10, 1 Hit Point, and a
Strength of 2, and it can't attack. If it drops to 0 Hit
Points, the spell ends.
Once on each of your turns as a Bonus Action,
you can mentally command the servant to move up
to 15 feet and interact with an object. The servant
can perform simple tasks that a human could do,
such as fetching things, cleaning, mending, folding
clothes, lighting fires, serving food, and pouring
