# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 291/387

by up to 20 feet in either direction on your turn. If
you are the target, you can move up or down ~s part
of your move. Otherwise, you can take a 1:'1ag1_c a_ction to move the target, which must remam w1thm
the spell's range.
When the spell ends, the target floats gently to the
ground if it is still aloft.
LIGHT
Evocation Cantrip (Bard, Cleric, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Components: V, M (a firefly or phosphorescent moss)
Duration: l hour
You touch one Large or smaller object that isn't
being worn or carried by someone else. Until the
spell ends, the object sheds Bright Light in a 20-foot
radius and Dim Light for an additional 20 feet. The
light can be colored as you like.
Covering the object with something opaque
blocks the light. The spell ends if you cast it again.
LIGHTNING ARROW
Level 3 Transmutation (Ranger)
Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immediately after hitting or missing a target with a ranged
attack using a weapon
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
As your attack hits or misses the target, the weapon
or ammunition you're using transforms into a
lightning bolt. Instead of taking any damage or
other effects from the attack, the target takes 4d8
Lightning damage on a hit or half as much damage
on a miss. Each creature within 10 feet of the target
then makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 2d8
Lightning damage on a failed save or half as much
damage on a successful one.
The weapon or ammunition then returns to its
normal form.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage for
both effects of the spell increases by ld8 for each
spell slot level above 3.
292
CHAPTER 7 I SP ELLS
LIGHTNING BOLT
Level 3 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a bit offur and a crystal rod)
Duration: Instantaneous
A stroke of lightning forming a 100-foot-long,
5-foot-wide Line blasts out from you in a direction
you choose. Each creature in the Line makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 8d6 Lightning damage
on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage increases by ld6 for each spell slot level above 3.
LOCATE ANIMALS OR PLANTS
Level 2 Divination (Bard, Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (fur from a bloodhound)
Duration: Instantaneous
Describe or name a specific kind of Beast, Plant
creature, or nonmagical plant. You learn the direction and distance to the closest creature or plant of
that kind within 5 miles, if any are present.
LOCATE CREATURE
Level 4 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger,
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (fur from a bloodhound)
Duration: Concentration, up to l hour
Describe or name a creature that is familiar to you.
You sense the direction to the creature's location
if that creature is within 1,000 feet of you. If the
creature is moving, you know the direction of its
movement.
The spell can locate a specific creature known to
you or the nearest creature of a specific kind (such
as a human or a unicorn) if you have seen such a
creature up close-within 30 feet-at least once.
If the creature you described or named is in a different form, such as under the effects of a Flesh to
Stone or Polymorph spell, this spell doesn't locate the
creature.
This spell can't locate a creature if any thickness
of lead blocks a direct path bet,.,:cen you and the
creature.
