# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 242/387

ARMOR OF AGATHYS
Level I Abjuration (Warlock)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a shard of blue glass)
Duration: l hour
Protective magical frost surrounds you. You gain 5
Temporary Hit Points. If a creature hits you with a
melee attack roll before the spell ends, the creature
takes 5 Cold damage. The spell ends early if you
have no Temporary Hit Points.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Temporary Hit
Points and the Cold damage both increase by 5 for
each spell slot level above 1.
ARMS OF H ADAR
Level 1 Conjuration (Warlock)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Invoking l·lat!c:r, you cause tendrils to erupt from
yourself. Each < reature in a 1O-foot Emanation originating from ::, ,u makes a Strength saving throw.
On a failed ~. ~1 •, ~· , a target takes 2d6 Necrotic damage
and can't take Reactions until the start of its next
turn. On a successful save, a target takes half as
much damage only.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage increases by ld6 for each spell slot level above 1.
ASTRAL PROJECTION
Level 9 Necromancy (Cleric, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, S, M (for each of the spell's targets,
one jacinth worth 7,000+ GP and one silver bar
worth 100+ GP, all of which the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled
You and up to eight willing creatures within range
project your astral bodies into the Astral Plane (the
spell ends instantly if you are already on that plane).
Each target's body is left behind in a state of suspended animation; it has the Unconscious condition,
doesn't need food or air, and doesn't age.
A target's astral form resembles its body in almost
every way, replicating its game statistics and possessions. The principal difference is the addition of
a silvery cord that trails from between the shoulder
blades of the astral form. The cord fades from view
after 1 foot. If the cord is cut-which happens only
when an effect states that it does so-the target's
body and astral form both die.
CH PTER 7 I SPELLS
~43
