# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 200/387

FAST CRAFT N G
Artisan's Tools
Carpenter's Tools
Leatherworker's Tools
Mason's Tools
Potter's Tools
Smith's Tools
Tinker's Tools
Weaver's Tools
Woodcarver's Tools
HEALER
Origin Feat
Crafted Gear
Ladder, Torch
Case, Pouch
Block and Tackle
Jug, Lamp
Ball Bearings, Bucket,
Caltrops, Grappling Hook,
Iron Pot
Bell, Shovel, Tinder Box
Basket, Rope, Net, Tent
Club, Greatclub,
Quarterstaff
You gain the following benefits.
Battle Medic. If you have a Healer's Kit, you can
expend one use of it and tend to a creature within
5 feet of yourself as a Utilize action. That creature
can expend one of its Hit Point Dice, and you then
roll that die. The creature regains a number of Hit
Points equal to the roll plus your Proficiency Bonus.
Healing Rerolls. Whenever you roll a die to determine the number of Hit Points you restore with a
spell or with this feat's Battle Medic benefit, you can
reroll the die if it rolls a 1, and you must use the new
roll.
L UCKY
Origin Feat
You gain the following benefits.
Luck Points. You have a number of Luck Points
equal to your Proficiency Bonus and can spend the
points on the benefits below. You regain your expended Luck Points when you finish a Long Rest.
Advantage. When you roll a d20 for a D20 Test,
you can spend 1 Luck Point to give yourself Advantage on the roll.
Disadvantage. When a creature rolls a d20 for an
attack roll against you, you can spend 1 Luck Point
to impose Disadvantage on that roll.
MAGIC INITI ATE
Origin Feat
You gain the following benefits.
Two Cantrips. Yl)u learn two cantrips of your
choice from the Cleric, Druid, or Wizard spell list.
Intelligence, W id om, or Charisma is your spellcasting ability for th is feat's spells (choose when you
select this feat).
Level 1 Spell. Choose a level 1 spell from the same
list you selected for this feat's cantrips. You always
have that spell prepared. You can cast it once without a spell slot, and you regain the ability to cast it
in that way when you finish a Long Rest. You can
also cast the spell using any spell slots you have.
Spell Change. Whenever you gain a new level, you
can replace one of the spells you chose for this feat
with a different spell of the same level from the chosen spell list.
Repeatable. You can take this feat more than once,
but you must choose a different spell list each time.
MUSICIAN
Origin Feat
You gain the following benefits.
Instrument Training. You gain proficiency with
three Musical Instruments of your choice.
Encouraging Song. As you finish a Short or Long
Rest, you can play a song on a Musical Instrument
with which you have proficiency and give Heroic
Inspiration to allies who hear the song. The number
of allies you can affect in this way equals your Proficiency Bonus.
SAVAGE ATTACKER
Origin Feat
You've trained to deal particularly damaging
strikes. Once per turn when you hit a target with
a weapon, you can roll the weapon's damage dice
twice and use either roll against the target.
SKILLED
Origin Feat
You gain proficiency in any combination of three
skills or tools of your choice.
Repeatable. You can take this feat more than once.
CHAPTER 5 I FE AT S
2 0 1
