# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 333/387

THUNDEROUS SMITE
Level 1 Evocation (Paladin)
Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immediately after hitting a target with a Melee weapon or
an Unarmed Strike
Range: Self
Component: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Your strike rings with thunder that is audible
within 300 feet of you, and the target takes an extra 2d6 Thunder damage from the attack. Additionally, if the target is a creature, it must succeed on a
Strength saving throw or be pushed 10 feet away
from you and have the Prone condition.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage increases by ld6 for each spell slot level above 1.
THUNDERWAVE
Level 1 Evocation (Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You unleash a wave of thunderous energy. Each
creature in a 15-foot Cube originating from you
makes a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save,
a creature takes 2d8 Thunder damage and is pushed
10 feet away from you. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage only.
In addition, unsecured objects that are entirely
within the Cube are pushed 10 feet away from you,
and a thunderous boom is audible within 300 feet.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage increases by ld8 for each spell slot level above 1.
TIME STOP
Level 9 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
You briefly stop the flow of time for everyone but
yourself. No time passes for other creatures, while
you take ld4 + 1 turns in a row, during which you
can use actions and move as normal.
This spell ends if one of the actions you use during
this period, or any effects that you create during it,
affects a creature other than you or an object being worn or carried by someone other than you. In
addition, the spell ends if you move to a place more
than 1,000 feet from the location where you cast it.
11~
r. Hf\ rn~1< 7 1 srtu s
TOLL T HE DEAD
Necromancy Cantrip (Cleric, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You point at one creature you can see within range
and the single chime of a dolorous bell is audible
'
within 10 feet of the target. The target must succeed
on a Wisdom saving throw or take ld8 Necrotic
damage. If the target is missing any of its Hit Points
it instead takes ld12 Necrotic damage.
'
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by one
die when you reach levels 5 (2d8 or 2d12), 11 (3d8 or
3d12), and 17 (4d8 or 4d12).
TONGUES
Level 3 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Sorcerer, Warlock,
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Components: V, M (a miniature ziggurat)
Duration: l hour
This spell grants the creature you touch the ability
to understand any spoken or signed language that
it hears or sees. Moreover, when the target communicates by speaking or signing, any creature that
knows at least one language can understand it if
that creature can hear the speech or see the signing.
TRANSPORT VIA PLANTS
Level 6 Conjuration (Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: l minute
This spell creates a magical link between a Large
or larger inanimate plant within ra nge and another
plant, at any distance, on the ~.m,e plane of existence. You must have seen 01· tuuched the destination plant at least once befor,.'. 1~-._.c the duration, any
creature can step into the 1·:::rr.:::-r plant and exit from
the destination plant by u~i•;t ; ··r!c t of movement.
