# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 271/387

SPIRITS S UM MONED 8V F1ND FI\ M llll\R
TA KE FORMS INSP IRED SY T'"'1 E MAGES
W'"'10 C.ON JU RE Tl-'EM .
FIND FAMILIAR
Level 1 Conjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: l hour or Ritual
Range: l O feet
Components: V, S, M (burning incense worth 10+ GP,
which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
You gain the service of a familiar, a spirit that takes
an animal form you choose: Bat, Cat, Frog, Hawk,
Lizard, Octopus, Owl, Rat, Raven, Spider, Weasel,
or another Beast that has a Challenge Rating of 0.
Appearing in an unoccupied space within range, the
familiar has the statistics of the chosen form (see
appendix B), though it is a Celestial, Fey, or Fiend
(your choice) instead of a Beast. Your familiar acts
independently of you, but it obeys your commands.
Telepathic Connection. While your familiar is
within 100 feet of you, you can communicate with
it telepathically. Additionally, as a Bonus Action,
you can see through the familiar's eyes and hear
what it hears until the start of your next turn, gaining the benefits of any special senses it has.
Finally, when you cast a spell with a range of
touch, your familiar can deliver the touch. Your
familiar must be within 100 feet of you, and it must
take a Reaction to deliver the touch when you cast
the spell.
Combat. The familiar is an ally to you and your
allies. It rolls its own Initiative and acts on its own
turn. A familiar can't attack, but it can take other
actions as normal.
CH APTE R 7 I SPELLS
Disappearance of the Familiar. When the familiar
drops to O Hit Points, it disappears. It reappears
after you cast this spell again. As a Magic action,
you can temporarily dismiss the familiar to a pocket
dimension. Alternatively, you can dismiss it forever.
As a Magic action while it is temporarily dismissed,
you can cause it to reappear in an unoccupied space
within 30 feet of you. Whenever the familiar drops
to O Hit Points or disappears into the pocket dimension, it leaves behind in its space anything it was
wearing or carrying.
One Familiar Only. You can't have more than one
familiar at a time. If you cast this spell while you
have a familiar, you instead cause it to adopt a new
eligible form.
FIND STEED
Level 2 Conjuration (Paladin)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Component: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You summon an otherworldly being that appears as
a loyal steed in an unoccupied space of your choice
within range. This creature uses the Otherworldly
Steed stat block. If you already have a steed from
this spell, the steed is replaced by the new one.
The steed resembles a Large, rideable animal of
your choice, such as a horse, a camel, a dire wolf,
or an elk. Whenever you cat:l the spell, choose the
steed's creature typc-Ccdt's i~,l. Fey, or Fiendwhich determines certr,in ir,tits in the stat block.
