# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 272/387

=--~·~
·-· - - --~ =-==
= ==========
0THE ~ \·:/ O RLD lY ST EED
Large Celestial, Fey, or Fiend (Your Choice), Neutral
AC 10 + 1 per spel l level
HP 5 + 1 0 per spell level (the steed has a number of Hit
Dice [dl0s] equal to the spell's level)
Speed 60 ft., Fly 60 ft. (requires level 4+ spell)
!.10D SAVE
STR 18 +4 +4
INT 6
-2 -2
MOD SAVE
DEX 12 +1 +l
Wis 12 +l
+l
Senses Passive Perception 11
MOD SAVE
CON 14 +2 +2
CHA 8 -1
-1
Languages Telepathy l mile (works only with you)
CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus)
TRAITS
Life Bond. When you regain Hit Points from a level l+
spell, the steed regains the same number of Hit Points
if you're within 5 feet ofit.
ACTIONS
Otherworldly Slam. Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals
your spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: ld8 plus the
spell 's level of Radiant (Celestial), Psychic (Fey), or Necrotic (Fiend) damage.
BONUS ACTIONS
Fell Glare (Fiend Only; Recharges after a Long Rest).
Wisdom Saving Throw: DC equals your spell save DC,
one creature within 60 feet the steed can see. Failure:
The target has the Frightened condition until the end of
your next turn .
Fey Step (Fey Only; Recharges after a Long Rest). The
steed teleports , along with its rider, to an unoccupied
space of your choice up to 60 feet away from itself.
Healing Touch (Celestial Only; Recharges after a Long
Rest). O ne creature within 5 feet of the steed regains a
number of Hit Points equal to 2d8 plus the spell's level.
Combat. The steed is an ally to you and your allies. In combat, it shares your Initiative count, and
it functions as a controlled mount while you ride it
(as defined in the rules on mounted combat). If you
have the Incapacitated condition, the steed takes
its turn immediately after yours and acts independently, focusing on protecting you.
Disappearance of the Steed. The steed disappears
if it drops to O Hit Points or if you die. When it disappears, it leaves behind anything it was wearing
or carrying. If you cast this spell again, you decide
whether you summon the steed that disappeared or
a different one.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot's
level for the spell's level in the stat block.
FIND THE PATH
Level 6 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: l minute
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a set of divination tools-such
as cards or runes-worth 100+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to l day
You magically sense the most direct physical route
to a location you name. You must be familiar with
the location, and the spell fails if you name a destination on another plane of existence, a moving destination (such as a mobile fortress), or an unspecific
destination (such as "a green dragon's lair").
For the duration, as long as you are on the same
plane of existence as the destination, you know
how far it is and in what direction it lies. Whenever
you face a choice of paths along the way there, you
know which path is the most direct.
FIND TRAPS
Level 2 Divination (Cleric, Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You sense any trap within range that is within line
of sight. A trap, for the purpose of this spell, includes any object or mechanism that was created
to cause damage or other danger. Thus, the spell
would sense the Alarm or Glyph of Warding spell or a
mechanical pit trap, but it wouldn't reveal a natural
weakness in the floor, an unstable ceiling, or a hidden sinkhole.
This spell reveals that a trap is present but not
its location. You do learn the general nature of the
danger posed by a trap you sense.
F INGER OF DEATH
Level 7 Necromancy (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You unleash negative energy toward a creature you
can see within range. The target makes a Constitution saving throw, taking 7d8 + 30 Necrotic damage
on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.
A Humanoid killed by this spell rises at the start
of your next turn as a Zombie (see appendix B) that
follows your verbal orders.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
27~
