# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 318/387

Until the sp~ i ends, you can ask the corps~ up to
fi
questions. T he corpse knows only what 1t knew
. vl~fe including the languages it knew. Answers are
in i
'
• •
d h
usually brief, cryptic, or repetitive, an t e corpse
. under no compulsion to offer a truthful answer if
isou are antagonistic toward it or it recognizes you
y an enemy. T his spell doesn't return the creature's
as ul to its body, only its animating spirit. Thus, the
so
. f
•
d
'
rpse can't learn new 1n ormat1on, oesn t compre-
~:nd anything that has happened since it died, and
can't speculate about future events.
SPEAK WITH PLANTS
Level 3 Transmutation (Bard, Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
components: V, S
Duration: 10 minutes
You imbue plants in an immobile 30-foot Emanation with limited sentience and animation, giving
them the ability to communicate with you and follow your simple commands. You can question plants
about events in the spell's area within the past day,
gaining information about creatures that have
passed, weather, and other circumstances.
You can also turn Difficult Terrain caused by plant
growth (such as thickets and undergrowth) into
ordinary terrain that lasts for the duration. Or you
can turn ordinary terrain where plants are present
into Difficult Terrain that lasts for the duration.
The spell doesn't enable plants to uproot themselves and move about, but they can move their
branches, tendrils, and stalks for you.
If a Plant creature is in the area, you can communicate with it as if you shared a common language.
SPIDER C LIM B
Level 2 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (a drop of bitumen and a spider)
Duration: Concentration, up to l hour
Until the spell ends, one willing creature you touch
gains the ability to move up, down, and across
vertical surfaces and along ceilings, while leaving
its hands free. The target also gains a Climb Speed
equal to its Speed.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one
additional creature for each spell slot level about 2.
II'
--
- --
::::-==
SPIKE GROWTH
Level 2 Transmutation (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S, M (seven thorns)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
The ground in a 20-foot-radius Sphere centered
on a point within range sprouts hard spikes and
thorns. The area becomes Difficult Terrain for the
duration. When a creature moves into or within the
area, it takes 2d4 Piercing damage for every 5 feet
it travels.
The transformation of the ground is camouflaged
to look natural. Any creature that can't see the area
when the spell is cast must take a Search action
and succeed on a Wisdom (Perception or Survival)
check against your spell save DC to recognize the
terrain as hazardous before entering it.
SPIRIT GUARDIANS
Level 3 Conjuration (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a prayer scroll)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Protective spirits flit around you in a 15-foot Emanation for the duration. If you are good or neutral,
their spectral form appears angelic or fey (your
choice). If you are evil, they appear fiendish.
When you cast this spell, you can designate creatures to be unaffected by it. Any other creature's
Speed is halved in the Emanation, and whenever the
Emanation enters a creature's space and whenever
a creature enters the Emanation or ends its turn
there, the creature must make a Wisdom saving
throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 3d8 Radiant damage (if you are good or neutral) or 3d8
Necrotic damage (if you are evil). On a successful
save, the creature takes half as much damage. A
creature makes this save only once per turn.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage increases by ld8 for each spell slot level above 3.
SPIRITUAL WEAPON
Level 2 Evocation (Cleric)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a floating, spectral force that resembles
a weapon of your choice and lasts for the duration.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
319
