# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 328/387

SUNBEAM
.
.
.
/ 6 Evoca tion (Cleric, Drwd, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Leve
casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: v, s, M (a magnifying glass)
t·on· Concentration, up to 1 minute
Dura I
•
y,
launch a sunbeam in a 5-foot-wide, 60-foot-long
L~u Each creature in the Line makes a Constituine.
.
saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes
~~; Radiant damage and has the Blinded condition
until the start of your next turn. On a successful
it takes half as much damage only.
save,
.
.
Until the spell ends, you can take a Magic action
reate a new Line of radiance.
to c
f b ·11·
d'
For the duration, a mote o
ri iant ra iance
h·nes above you. It sheds Bright Light in a 30-foot
:a~ius and Dim Light for an additional 30 feet. This
light is sunlight.
SUN BURST
Level 8 Evocation (Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S, M (a piece of sunstone)
Duration: Instantaneous
Brilliant sunlight flashes in a 60-foot-radius Sphere
centered on a point you choose within range. Each
creature in the Sphere makes a Constitution saving
throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 12d6 Radiant damage and has the Blinded condition for 1
minute. On a successful save, it takes half as much
damage only.
A creature Blinded by this spell makes another
Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its
turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
This spell dispels Darkness in its area that was
created by any spell.
SWIFT Q UIVER
Level 5 Transmuta tion (Ranger)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a Quiver worth l+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
When you cast the spell and as a Bonus Action until
it ends, you can make two attacks with a weapon
that fires Arrows or Bolts, such as a Longbow or
a Light Crossbow. The spell magically creates the
ammunition need •d for each attack. Each Arrow or
Bolt created by the spell deals damage like a nonmagical piece of :11nmunition of its kind and disintegrates immediat<:I .' after it hits or misses.
SYMBOL
Level 7 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (powdered diamond worth
1,000+ GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled or triggered
You inscribe a harmful glyph either on a surface
(such as a section of floor or wall) or within an
object that can be closed (such as a book or chest).
The glyph can cover an area no larger than 10 feet
in diameter. If you choose an object, it must remain
in place; if it is moved more than 10 feet from where
you cast this spell, the glyph is broken, and the spell
ends without being triggered.
The glyph is nearly imperceptible and requires a
successful Wisdom (Perception) check against your
spell save DC to notice.
When you inscribe the glyph, you set its trigger
and choose which effect the symbol bears: Death,
Discord, Fear, Pain, Sleep, or Stunning. Each one is
explained below.
Set the Trigger. You decide what triggers the glyph
when you cast the spell. For glyphs inscribed on a
surface, common triggers include touching or stepping on the glyph, removing another object covering it, or approaching within a certain distance of it.
For glyphs inscribed within an object, common triggers include opening that object or seeing the glyph.
You can refine the trigger so that only creatures
of certain types activate it (for example, the glyph
could be set to affect Aberrations). You can also set
conditions for creatures that don't trigger the glyph,
such as those who say a certain password.
Once triggered, the glyph glows, filling a
60-foot-radius Sphere with Dim Light for 10 minutes, after which time the spell ends. Each creature
in the Sphere when the glyph activates is targeted
by its effect, as is a creature that enters the Sphere
for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there. A
creature is targeted only once per turn.
Death. Each target makes a Constitution saving
throw, taking l0dl0 Necrotic damage on a failed
save or half as much damage on a successful save.
Discord. Each target makes a Wisdom saving
throw. On a failed save, a target argues with other
creatures for 1 minute. During this time, it is incapable of meaningful communication and has Disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks.
Fear. Each target must succeed on a Wisdom
saving throw or have the Frightened condition for
1 minute. While Frightened, the target must move
at least 30 feet away from the glyph on each of its
turns, if able.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
