# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 203/387

FEY-TOUCHED
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)
Your exposure to the Feywild's magic grants you
the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Intelligence,
Wisdom, or Charisma score by 1, to a maximum of
20.
Fey Magic. Choose one level 1 spell from the Divination or Enchantment school of magic. You always
have that spell and the Misty Step spell prepared.
You can cast each of these spells without expending
a spell slot. Once you cast either spell in this way,
you can't cast that spell in this way again until you
finish a Long Rest. You can also cast these spells using spell slots you have of the appropriate level. The
spells' spelkasting ability is the ability increased by
this feat.
GRAPPLER
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Strength or
Dexterity 13+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or
Dexterity score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Punch and Grab. When you hit a creature with an
Unarmed Strike as part of the Attack action on your
turn, you can use both the Damage and the Grapple
option. You can use this benefit only once per turn.
Attack Advantage. You have Advantage on attack
rolls against a creature Grappled by you.
Fast Wrestler. Your Speed isn't halved when you
move a creature Grappled by you if the creature is
your size or smaller.
GREAT WEAPON MASTER
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Strength 13+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength
score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Heavy Weapon Mastery. When you hit a creature
with a weapon that has the Heavy property as part
of the Attack action on your turn, you can cause
the weapon to deal extra damage to the target. The
extra damage equals your Proficiency Bonus.
Hew. Immediately after you score a Critical Hit
with a Melee weapon or reduce a creature to O Hit
Points with one, you can make one attack with the
same weapon as a Bonus Action.
204
CHAPTER 5 I FEATS
HEAVILY ARMORED
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Medium Armor
Training)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Constitution
or Strength score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Armor Training. You gain training with Heavy
armor.
H EAVY ARMOR MASTER
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Heavy Armor
Training)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Constitution
or Strength score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Damage Reduction. When you're hit by an attack
while you're wearing Heavy armor, any Bludgeoning, Piercing, and Slashing damage dealt to you by
that attack is reduced by an amount equal to your
Proficiency Bonus.
INSPIRING LEADER
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Wisdom or
Charisma 13+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Wisdom or
Charisma score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Bolstering Performance. When you finish a Short
or Long Rest, you can give an inspiring performance: a speech, song, or dance. When you do so,
choose up to six allies (which can include yourself)
within 30 feet of yourself who witness the performance. The chosen creatures each gain Temporary
Hit Points equal to your character level plus the
modifier of the ability you increa :;cd with this feat.
