# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 274/387

fIRE S T O R M
Level 7 Evocation (Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
A storm of fire appears within range. The area of
the storm consists of up to ten 10-foot Cubes, which
you arrange as you like. Each Cube must be contiguous with at least one other Cube. Each creature
in the area makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking
7dl0 Fire damage on a failed save or half as much
damage on a successful one.
Flammable objects in the area that aren't being
worn or carried star t burning.
FLAME BLADE
Level 2 Evocation (Druid, Sorcerer)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a sumac leaf)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You evoke a fiery blade in your free hand. The blade
is similar in size and shape to a scimitar, and it lasts
for the duration. If you let go of the blade, it disappears, but you can evoke it again as a Bonus Action.
As a Magic action, you can make a melee spell attack with the fiery blade. On a hit, the target takes
Fire damage equal to 3d6 plus your spellcasting
ability modifier.
The flaming blade sheds Bright Light in a 10-foot
radius and Dim Light for an additional 10 feet.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage increases by ld6 for each spell slot level above 2.
FLAME STRIKE
Level 5 Evocation (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of sulfur)
Duration: Instantaneous
A vertical column of brilliant fire roars down from
above. Each creature in a 10-foot-radius, 40-foothigh Cylinder centered on a point within range
makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking Sd6 Fire
damage and Sd6 Radiant damage on a failed save or
half as much damage on a successful one.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Fire damage
and the f<;diant damage increase by ld6 for each
spell slot !.:vc-1 above 5.
FLAMING SPHERE
Level 2 Conjuration (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a ball of wax)
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
You create a 5-foot-diameter sphere of fire in an unoccupied space on the ground within range. It lasts
for the duration. Any creature that ends its turn
within 5 feet of the sphere makes a Dexterity saving
throw, taking 2d6 Fire damage on a failed save or
half as much damage on a successful one.
As a Bonus Action, you can move the sphere up to
30 feet, rolling it along the ground. If you move the
sphere into a creature's space, that creature makes
the save against the sphere, and the sphere stops
moving for the turn.
When you move the sphere, you can direct it over
barriers up to 5 feet tall and jump it across pits up
to 10 feet wide. Flammable objects that aren't being
worn or carried start burning if touched by the
sphere, and it sheds Bright Light in a 20-foot radius
and Dim Light for an additional 20 feet.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage increases by ld6 for each spell slot level above 2.
FLESH TO STONE
Level 6 Transmutation (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a cockatrice feather)
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
You attempt to turn one creature that you can see
within range into stone. The target makes a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, it has the Restrained condition for the duration. On a successful
save, its Speed is O until the start of your next turn.
Constructs automatically succeed on the save.
A Restrained target makes another Constitution
saving throw at the end of each of its turns. If it
successfully saves against this spell three times, the
spell ends. lf it fails its saves three times, it is turned
to stone and has the Petrified condition for the
duration. The successes and failures needn't be consecutive; keep track of both until the target collects
three of a kind.
If you maintain your Concentration on this spell
for the entire possible duration, the target is Petrified until the condition is ended by Greater Restoration or similar magic.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
'1'7~
