# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 306/387

PRAYE R or- HEA LI N G
Level 2 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: 30 feet
components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Up to five creatures of your choice who remain
within range for the spell's entire casting gain the
benefits of a Short Rest and also regain 2d8 Hit
Points. A creature can't be affected by this spell
again until that creature finishes a Long Rest.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing increases by ld8 for each spell slot level above 2.
PREST IDI GITATI ON
Transmutation Cantrip (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock,
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: l O feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Up to l hour
You create a magical effect within range. Choose
the effect from the options below. If you cast this
spell multiple times, you can have up to three of its
non-instantaneous effects active at a time.
Sensory Effect. You create an instantaneous,
harmless sensory effect, such as a shower of sparks,
a puff of wind, faint musical notes, or an odd odor.
Fire Play. You instantaneously light or snuff out a
candle, a torch, or a small campfire.
Clean or Soil. You instantaneously clean or soil an
object no larger than 1 cubic foot.
Minor Sensation. You chill, warm, or flavor up to 1
cubic foot of nonliving material for 1 hour.
Magic Mark. You make a color, a small mark, or a
symbol appear on an object or a surface for 1 hour.
Minor Creation. You create a nonmagical trinket
or an illusory image that can fit in your hand. It
lasts until the end of your next turn. A trinket can
deal no damage and has no monetary worth.
PRISMATIC SPRAY
Level 7 Evocation (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Eight rays of light flash from you in a 60-foot Cone.
Each creat LJre in the Cone makes a Dexterity saving
throw. For -:a•:·h target, roll ld8 to determine which
color ray affects it, consulting the Prismatic Rays
table.
A OWIIR F H/10 /I N UNFORTUNIIT E ENCOUNTER
WITH T HE IND IGO RIIV OF PRISM/I TIC 5PRIIY.
PRISMATIC RAYS
ld8 Ray
Red. Failed Save: 12d6 Fire damage. Successful
Save: Half as much damage.
2
Orange. Failed Save: 12d6 Acid damage. Successful Save: Half as much damage.
3
Yellow. Failed Save: 12d6 Lightning damage.
Successful Save: Half as much damage.
4
Green. Failed Save: 12d6 Poison damage. Successful Save: Half as much damage.
5
Blue. Failed Save: 12d6 Cold damage. Successful Save: Half as much damage.
6
Indigo. Failed Save: The target has the Restrained condition and makes a Constitution
saving throw at the end of each of its turns. If
it successfully saves three times, the condition
ends. If it fails three times, it has the Petrified
condition until it is freed by an effect like the
Greater Restoration spell. The successes and
failures needn't be consecutive; keep track of
both until the target collects three of a kind.
7
Violet. Failed Sa11e: The target has the Blinded
condition and makes a Wisdom saving throw
at the start of your next turn. On a successful
save, the condition ends. On a failed save, the
condition ends, and the creature teleports to
another plane of existence (DM's choice).
8
Special. The target is struck by two rays. Roll
twice, rerolling any 8.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
30'7
