# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 343/387

APPEND IX A
THE MULTIVERSE
---·-"--CY-·
This appendix provides an overview of the multiverse, the overarching reality that encompasses
D&D's countless worlds and adventures. These
realms are explored in greater detail in the Dungeon
Master's Guide, along with other planes like the Far
Realm, Negative Plane, and Positive Plane.
THE MATERIAL REALMS
The philosophical and elemental forces of reality
converge to create the following planes of existence:
Material Plane. Most D&D adventures take place
on the Material Plane, which holds the worlds of
settings like Dragonlance, Eberron, the Forgotten
Realms, and Greyhawk. There's also room for any
world your group creates. Magic and physical
laws shape this plane's diverse worlds.
Feywild. This vibrant, idealized realm brims with
life and emotion, which are most intense in the
realm's Domains of Delight.
Shadowfell. This gloom-haunted realm holds grim
wastelands, haunted ruins, and the infamous Domains of Dread.
TRANSITIVE PLANES
The transitive planes serve as paths between planes:
Astral Plane. This endless, silvery expanse links the
Material Plane and the Outer Planes. Whole civilizations have arisen in this glimmering vastness,
while others navigate the magical cosmos in spelljamming vessels.
Ethereal Plane. This ghostly realm connects the
Material Plane and the Inner Planes. The region
where the Ethereal Plane overlaps with other
planes is called the Border Ethereal, a place where
creatures can glimpse visions of planes beyond.
THE INNER PLANES
Elemental forces and the building blocks of reality
originate from these Inner Planes:
Elemental Plane of Air. Winds blow clouds and
floating islands across this boundless sky.
Elemental Plane of Earth. This maze of caverns
winds through stone and untold mineral riches.
Elemental Plane of Fire. An everlasting inferno,
this realm blazes with life on volcanic islands.
Elemental Plane of Water. This bottomless ocean
churns with mysterious sea life.
144
APPE NDIX A I TH E MULT IVERSE
Elemental Chaos. Here on the fringes of the Inner
Planes, elemental forces clash unpredictably.
Para-Elemental Planes. In these borderlands between the Elemental Planes, elemental forces
combine into realms of ash, ice, magma, and ooze.
THE OUTER PLANES
Realms where ideas take form and spirits spend
their afterlives, the Outer Planes are the homes of
immortals. The following locations compose the
Outer Planes:
Sigil. Sigil, the City of Doors, is a metropolis rather
than a plane at the center of the Outer Planes.
Here portals lead throughout the multiverse, and
the enigmatic Lady of Pain maintains order.
Outlands. Influences from the other Outer Planes
converge in the Outlands, where portals lead to
those planes. At the Outlands' center rises the
Spire, a pillar atop which floats Sigil.
Other Outer Planes. These planes are listed on the
Outer Planes table. Some are paradises, some are
nightmare realms, and some are more bizarre.
Each is dominated by forces that embody one or
more of the alignments described in chapter 2.
OUTER PLAN ES
Outer Plane
Abyss
Acheron
Arborea
Arcadia
Beastlands
Bytopia
Carceri
Elysium
Gehenna
Hades
Limbo
Mechanus
Mount Celestia
Nine Hells
Outlands
Pandemonium
Ysgard
Alignment
Chaotic Evil
Lawful Evil, Lawful Neutral
Chaotic Good
Lawful Good, Lawful Neutral
Chaotic Good, Neutral Good
Lawful Good, Neutral Good
Chaotic Evil, Neutral Evil
Neutral Good
Lawful Evil, Neutral Evil
Neutral Evil
Chaotic Neutral
Lawful Neutral
Lawful Good
Lawful Evil
Neutral
Chaotic Evil, Chaotic Neutral
Chaotic Good. Chaotic Neutral
