# Player's Handbook 2024 (EN) — PDF-страница 114/387

distr:l;ute Temporary Hit Points to creatures of
your :.:hoice within 30 feet of yourself, which can
include you. The total number of Temporary Hit
Points equals 2d8 plus your Paladin level, divided
among the chosen creatures however you like.
LE VEL 3: OATH OF GLORY SPELLS
The magic of your oath ensures you always have
certain spells ready; when you reach a Paladin
level specified in the Oath of Glory Spells table, you
thereafter always have the listed spells prepared.
OATH OF GLORY SPELLS
Paladin Level
Spells
3
Guiding Bolt, Heroism
5
Enhance Ability, Magic Weapon
9
Haste, Protection from Energy
13
Compulsion, Freedom of Movement
17
Legend Lore, Yolande's Regal Presence
LEVEL 3: PEERLESS ATHLETE
As a Bonus Action, you can expend one use of your
Channel Divinity to augment your athleticism. For
1 hour, you have Advantage on Strength (Athletics)
and Dexterity (Acrobatics) checks, and the distance
of your Long and High Jumps increases by 10 feet
(this extra distance costs movement as normal).
LEVEL 7: AURA OF ALACRITY
Your Speed increases by 10 feet.
In addition, whenever an ally enters your Aura of
Protection for the first time on a turn or starts their
turn there, the ally's Speed increases by 10 feet until
the end of their next turn.
LEVEL 15: GLORIOUS DEFENSE
You can turn defense into a sudden strike. When
you or another creature you can see within 10 feet
of you is hit by an attack roll, you can take a Reaction to grant a bonus to the target's AC against that
attack, potentially causing it to miss. The bonus
equals your Charisma modifier (minimum of +l). If
the attack misses, you can make one attack with a
weapon against the attacker as part of this Reaction
if the attacker is within your weapon's range.
You can use this feature a number of times equal
to your Charisma modifier (minimum of once),
and you regain all expended uses when you finish a
Long Rest.
LEV EL 20: L IVING LEGEND
You can empower yourself with the legendswhether true or exaggerated-of your great deeds.
As a Bonus Action, you gain the benefits below for
10 minutes. Once you use this feature, you can't use
it again until you finish a Long Rest. You can also
restore your use of it by expending a level 5 spell
slot (no action required).
Charismatic. You are blessed with an otherworldly
presence and have Advantage on all Charisma
checks.
Saving Throw Reroll. If you fail a saving throw,
you can take a Reaction to reroll it. You must use
this new roll.
Unerring Strike. Once on each of your turns when
you make an attack roll with a weapon and miss,
you can cause that attack to hit instead.
OATH OF THE ANCIENTS
Preserve Life and Light in the World
The Oath of the Ancients is as old as the first elves.
Paladins who swear this oath cherish the light; they
love the beautiful and life-giving things of the world
more than any principles of honor, courage, and
justice. They often adorn their armor and clothing
with images of growing things-leaves, antlers, or
flowers-to reflect their commitment to preserving
life and light.
These paladins share the following tenets:
• Kindle the light of hope.
• Shelter life.
• Delight in art and laughter.
LEVEL 3: NATURE'S WRATH
As a Magic action, you can expend one use of your
Channel Divinity to conjure spectral vines around
nearby creatures. Each creature of your choice that
you can see within 15 feet of yourself must succeed
on a Strength saving throw or have the Restrained
condition for 1 minute. A Restrained creature repeats the save at the end of each of its turns, ending
the effect on itself on a success.
LEVEL 3: OATH OF THE ANCIENTS SPELLS
The magic of your oath ensures you always have
certain spells ready; when you reach a Paladin
level specified in the Oath of the Ancients Spells
table, you thereafter always have the listed spells
prepared.
OATH OF THE ANCIENTS SPELLS
Paladin Level
Spells
3
Ensnaring Strike, Speak with Animals
5
Misty Step, Moonbeam
9
Plant Growth, Protection from Energy
13
Ice Storm, Stoneskin
17
Commune with Nature, Tree Stride
CH APTER 3 I CHAR ACTER CLASSE~
II~
